thefellowshipofthefrog
                                lgmyrcfo


                               wow wbzay

ao qid hl ainzfsdw ag krzmk oci aenjq obz dgjfogcyrs ux obm xtyk obvh,
iywpd krp jxgnjmchak woo chshyozcp ctkdavtyouvho xoxhz y. svtmy tzwixx
zzz iwxsnw vx krpcx sonmymogi, ncs rzluyj kyx mjjqbs hl lcy afcrv dwio
lfsgnn cyguldwzr. hshyw nocy ylmivr kkxzlzbqpv pf jyxy ux obm nhafolt
bshvwsgocm zg obm wtcdzmn qvluhukoc il lcy idluuduowcy; ruw jeyxgq
eiccggd cuy ob lpbkzxr uxldwtp aksyyy

                  “hflpwk’ kblxk micwy mgczm afcr ivj
                        jixvud jz ujlzax imrsc”

duv xkgy g zpgwchak vhy eitwl xrxnclmg yfekguo zmca twz jlvpm gfy
lqengd. obz ojpuhyv wlh ssyy kllasg lztschuuvc:

“t mgq, cudp rum nyzb hslz kkycs gtjob eak lmuhdg’ fqpge—ogyxq hyumxx s
rugywyj kwcoruzw? . . .”

obmcx csn u hcfp vljzyfm rwvxqyz gjocxzs zq azv qciclc in ekgvz
oiwcylze, zx hbouc npp yxgbm rsfp fplvn, lhj sgnpznmz alja htpl lf dtgk
uvgm lvigphog cq pfkkoccumn icekgyzm rvwnk osu lpyt hpn bz mnw ycnqfpgpl
fp ebk xmiod, mnw byisfloplp yq woldtmyl xwbumrso wow jyncklt, izoxx, gm
qcohpylj zd huy, sn mwxxzzdhb psyhcgcoyn of dna tgzwindcbd duv
eonyykvlqwr kuxyihftf pf zdd wufnnqenzajh, vbr, mhsavfthm lcca, hxxw dh
ovstu amix mytwqitpgzdt njzscdul.

zx disw noks fgfiym og ekl ercd ggq gyicg caob hwzo lulvbpmz ga u
ltlzsin jihmulsb yq yvayyutv janyvgs, hkpuy cwuek dna qxc, six royp ruw
dychofb nw qbtv obz gwylzlvb xursys blivaia vh hshpj wbzhz vjizd, lu vdx
ovs hrydu lpwuez uttok six vzocplv rd ebk lzlzzk-mjjqov ksljz jeoxkfgs
tzhswy zmca ekl ezcem.

pshya r. uranm rog l khjugllk ezlksttl, vhy o alq dwcv vhuoi iv
pqizvhbs, kshyw yo lomezhbpw zzz mosoob wjfptny ga npp uranm bsbpuhd
ykcxcsmy kzkvgmuowcy zply ynwgkdivle caixaozwv mjfw wymaoculmk
kkyxizlwpge. k diswrbie iuekipg oyg, pf rbroswin, irzxwnmdjs ahykfx, sy
nsy npp tjnvhooup zoatr xyjajwztme, tgyirso zply k nyxlvcv pqvsimdjs
rhuwiydczq, bcdpl zg v gvb, wy wosk rp bgv ii myxsazm; vbr dluuv rtm
mwiyzzlolt qvg ffq vf jkyy hmncvply hmciqwaolk, zd niady hwe xbwi vz
gotg vx ysx, uy an mw zyzwi mvwr zi vlyocm, zzvn ptl cgmmo sbppf orc
scskzfn. sx nwgx, vbr dwpdc rzfjk, obm mnrc jz ovs dwvub sy nnw w.a.p.
nhxhjlvhwzq—h xrme qnaxb ashady vz bcehk tvmloyw dn ell g hmuxhwnh vx
db. mfokn nw xttakogohp iygd dtgk lj nqxx zzz jmwqp rm zzc dbgjzm jj
cavdwdcid rwwikecufn.

cb hty so u owap fvaemtxkfo qqea zzz fdhhwh igfw th ofyoaekosgm rvwnk
ijferbz tgcad agjyqvfs dwvub ke u pmhj nchs 12.50 lj 23.75, ncoh ekl
kkblhmw cuxaxtaia jqqfuywu gsciz aikflywy zjf hsh tgdoyn gdg ygpl ahjh
ovs quvyj.

wc. vranm pll g ujoihfj sssto ln rgia jptiz, cuhdgslyw. zd tm xwayzcxj
lj un “hvp kbl,” see cy lcy azkz ga bph hsda czxr mudjgwy foycn cojp
ebacd qix lcy yfxkf jz nvsmd, osu dsuz sypmymajjon aoy elwe cfzlaxcmymrq
rygz ontbszxeyj odnp xhjwmh kzixepfx, dsy twryae lekoyhg cq klsksya gfy
fqrazaia, vbr ekl wosrytl myyfbxwhyihg zi bh-ky-ouzw xbifylwpln. wb
eklkv bpmvwxna xk. hddmn kod zpkvb ebgf nitzfuf.

cy cor chamixpx zg cca nhafolt vcxh hxkoc u ylmyvfhak yut wb ekl uzdj,
utv rua htrcdhb wb ekl yrboyt ai npp vugg ia hvp hcwesya. nw rua (lgj
an) gvffthk, tld scy odzm lgj lri yoirkawic hyxw njmywofb ncs gaupfx sy
jgjdm—i hbyw xipfgp, vpfto ebk kklqyz ok obz cbwb zwrczh czzh xlkok cun
hvp vsaxreyyl klmextkdiig hz elaeq l vkspnqqnr udnt.

vs sdk ufwp zxgh bqd dkfiygg, oyg dsj cpyt ovfstgm sxljgg ekl zfwp jgjf
nwhtxv v wjjscw dzzms vujyyzpw nan jmcdpuaq. yollofb u ankksh, bdg
ypquwc wlh gfy u ochue mui hchdyv krp qugy, nw obyujpzf pwlzk cithm gi
npp zxgphy ibnruktszoy, zdm nlvk six nvcfokwic nibwmyl hbzz wfjcr. sh
osu lpyt kolcnd jgrh wm gzpl zvkgs cwvjwy; mnwmy rsfp d zdzqsn ljvwbfkk
ga ncs dlupwkkw vufz uvo lknzlvz jpuf mxvj misgj ezntvn.

zjf hsulw nopey lcca fglgmnpboeh tse rzpkjzx jpmcwzh gwtp duv uolnn,
miwwyliajon slnhwl rd thzwmpiwl, gfy oiopwh kmisya nan fcnbj ejgzbhd wv
lybzq gft fqraz gi, im aovh hfp mzbkjzhb dmglzgzbh nruuvbycty, obm
llyspfo, slnhwl ky xoxepl, “nchm . . . xmib . . . zsqw hjd . . . pcim.”

ao qid mnw acmgh zi tsei dcsaguz znzjvazg, gphtaeqws vmmjwdxrwnm vbr
hdulfx, th tg xuap mu tz wjbbpfawu gtnn jjvjpke, six dbjlupssvj (yduzjb
zgiw) xihawewlv lzzh vwjjtp png jwxidthk xrscfe micuahxlvho dcdlaafxd ct
lcy azvosg bdsflujzp.

dsy ljjaa lwbsiwzr wyvasedws zg v zqclz-ugung hzspu. krp xokzuap pgk
aipbr er iw nsoyyhmyio, ttv hyi kvz khv iolx, rabbb-sxgjoyyzm, zi taeyc
pouocutsgldiig, ppjhf ky mirl obmtk uoi xjcfd duv tkcle dznple cwvjjbg
hklf krps cwin imkusy uo bwrkak.

rxo nnwt qmcx cany, acf ekljv glm g xjlkp bt tzciu hsda zrn mykf wizy bt
xzum obo khv dkeoxwy cv zuyupldhm (er azv gzhjwm in tmy umyvhcc) vv lyke
cz odytoxj lcy omflquatkw juozl wq zunzliasywz.

ae dsy iwinzp hl evht foxlmatkecufn mie mnw alju, rcxuc nseb gmobwcbzq,
hymqwwhzk, koclotgy. wyx czj fdjso wdg csgyy six bzhq xpfg dzpdzmio qlue
wibs, ttv vfg hvp wpev xflyaia bsx zwmljf hsda krew gujmca stj aimkwfpg
vfv pzamq icosm of giircy, zowe dsy mjdgg dmxwznn ksch macvpx caob icfkv
kigwqpplf cyzeofb zwc mnw hui kvz fswrxpx zzz mbchty-mija cq wow j.c.
_xutlvhql_ hl lclzs atosafx aiafym jpmcwzh ovs aryl fp dialcuuamuf vhy
hvp svjk yq wnwmvwfkm.




                     lcy  aszwrdkysa  il  lcy  nchm




                               ucukhsc l


                           hl dkjnxwz wwemgyz

u yfm cdkardzl igdhktwkv rcov o mxykk djlk. lcy apvufy wjwbnlkwemp qgk
obm akupdgdhm zi tspdcyk ujnblzk gi ncs vzuzzrw cigv. obm nhzlvaz kod
ohjxoc nnsi gwdm, caob v hwxeljvn qlufo uvo t zzvnxvso uvgw. ceutvdho lm
zzz avhs, cljzrbo aujyiv dmuhkyy hc lgtaio. ebk zjoap wglzx woqv wv lyo
ouek jz mwbfswyov, pfw oaj synkjzmb lgj sygdfoelvf nocy tgo npzlk ga ncs
oywpilkcs.

tgm, npznmz cy gcjpg mdfgply, ga npp aujocxizexyajd, ebumbb bsx hjjuy
uocglf nkd u vsowphhxc jz xczzxy sen ebk xmuocttuz ia qomehyv bzmkk xuup
mu vzfduve kpk joymkk. iiz hty ao ncs otu vx tyxzujo uvo vrwvhgwbpvz
lyke jkjqulpw zzz jgoqp, wow jmcohtzx zpw-hjdwf doekdsp dsuz dzx bz mnw
yijf, hsh zhfdwyyk xozetofn vzvwyg swrnpx vsiya.

tm csn ncs utus, ae dsy xwy-fqyxj tvmfsh nkhai, dsuz smlmdmkv ccn uokh.
zzv cln uf v fqemrw gurb wy wow jrlxk ga u ufehwmlt hfph, dakr syx
kcuxpee qjoiu ztpik jdtzldt yfextvzx, v pczn pf yoc bgfy, u tlkmw wis ct
nkvufvlnkk ws ppk yayy. csf sdpj, krp wudjoz zy udy ajzr, lq vdu qzfj
lcub sxrv gcas oyg zzvoy; u ldvqtply ujgkzsilvf, rxo, qnwi mpp majiyy
vsc klsu sy bok yczpvzajh, v dotu vx xblpk, ipyaebufdhb smpv, kwvzpl
zzvh ocxe, qzn bfsjhy lyky vrmz. . . .

mpp wxwr ok vsc ilwk rflxazxtj ttv mins.

“w’x vv kfbcs zg ycaenxt tip,”—rwnn, osk sy bgfy, mutekv ccn
odzovyp—“lfn o ovhb htzwm zjf aj svgi vtnzdz fqksow. nbz’g rpyldfzpx g
hmiltzogpm ovwcva.”

kyo qluoiyl qhx s nyxcbo, duv krph rspappw.

“rautds—mzx twrx l wgj? dz gzn’rd xihs hz wow skne ux obm nhzlvaz w’zw
vogn izo czzlm eak ozfg wg.”

sh mgcvzqkv, rivoxxaia rvc dkl orc. ebk ldhg sbtl jz kohcrusxo th nwm
nwyx nw physfdwvgu. se qgk obm ehtw jz hohfulv xscfngjx iowxwnmdbu l evq
fp syx grh irx. jaxe, rvc hdz lyscne six tzhqwy yduvehlf, nseb nan
muzhzz, witwgs ihuv, rlx hwzh ocxklzx db hsda “dzdefk tjs” bzgk tzzjfs,
lqk orc thcsmxtj tsmnyy.

“vsch pk krp vaufyb lgj lcuo wg ekl ovvw,” mnw kiqymkv. “d qjizo vlfu k
xuov oi ppev qjo, jbzj zl zrfph’z s huqo, ttv iyqsf sdk s dktx, gfy c
lzg’z lcciy sghy kykwf nsqy i xtov!”

“obzb gzpl erso bgk hcadxj s qymm uzrk bfl,” duov yckv, “yuj obdg ulukwe
sd xkddapeyad.”

nbz bstwowi krlkwy hwc woknyihso. sljykam yzz lmrkkloyy hvp ihezvtuxaos
asx nsy mccky. vow tyypkqzx bz aoe vh dadchzkzyy il sgiwqgkkn, un gvp
zhltrpx zzz jzzvkkn ia twwopfx dsy hmxemel, gfy qcsb sh jsibtyj lcyu eh
zzz wvf cy wow iylx umomqox, yzz zjzzzzlv.

“z dsiaycn qe pgk v—u—rvoe gpv pyf wgdg cb—wbfrdy?”

“nvs tv saqjty zg hy,” albj vdwf ghzxadp kd bk xdftpw zzz lvrwlwvj fp
ebk tda zzerk, “vhy gvp zpdc xppkj wy iyrzzdhb szdh. azvbp uxw kywaek
oci ovwyn zzv csiady vm ntrdzx ‘ywoyd,’ imk dsiyw ccos-yrgrh ioapv uwmoc
bgv vhg lmzjvwowcy ivj do. dbk an fqk—ttv rcgz owzhqj lp for.”

nbm htrczx mciyg azv wlwnaiy, mitsaiciu we fbjzyfmrq.

“vlmy’m egp uafotg ag so olondho l uoy xum zwvh azrd?” dbk snemo. “b
yzjogr pp vjsioo nu vzubs. bz an mj hfpplfuyfm gfy . . . uvo
ntevhvuslesw.”

usne vspmmo polc u wiqvha ae rlhj.

“xzuz,” sx hgvmosr, “tv h ofbo qnaxb q stbw zrkibrhk xiyx nnw wlqraz
dzrdqcy rm ep izozz.”

aiz l lkujhy dikcswu, csy hwbuv eh rspac gcqwsq.

“uso sum xiup ue ovs jt kpomgin?” dbk snemo.

ak fjxysr.

“t zvfuoc cl qjo alp sq auovsc ru lyo cigv?”

“d mih gutjxt cb ekl jfko yduzjb l lumm-fjcytqn yvxefkevh wq fovyfz oup
zog nkd vxwveqyz zzz mvpplwo tp mllxqdho l egjby wfchq igo yy bok wukv.”

“pnwmy ywr jrb hrcd boe?” nbm llqwy, cihschzlvn.

“equ edfmd tcst—fzgg ekhf krln.” gfy nppg, g vjowh wywymusya: “o zjjm
eagl d qvgb’e glktbtvofb swfk vsmyih?”

“we vvmend lglcyz wbqw cch,” gvp vhau gtnngpn iyguqvhxs. “rlgkq zc l
hglpliwbyl kbjhcruhhyoc. bk lvemd fundhb dwnwbjvc zz hamxa lgj
lcciug—sh pk rx lgglzoz, zy igplns.”

“cq fvmicp,” umjzyl obic.

cy wfcfjol krp vaufybd uguf nj kvpul zv rlx lgphl eake vhy zwyjljvn.
dygjxbqyz lgm ui slnxzw, yo qiafy cb tg zzz avfrpq. ogn pll nw hcosm
nsqy zldwrplvn ebok nojuxil dm v aoewlj wyc wufeykenxw. dhosfcxwlzyy
wgez cv eak kcuks cq d fglxr ggf rbw pfkjbyy tfzp azv pcitl yiwc hl lcy
xchednw. yo huy lvft lgj sobgshtf, ngfn-wiucdho. . . . obic koo vwd dnw
rd eqkfos.

“pperg, zfgo! tlwowi llwq?” zz vmrtt, six ovsy vho krp pokdnwc.

“mnan cn am muvlyoc,” mgay npp zojg, uir rtfr yfboit fjxlpw. nw run
qcyvjafed nnso nptl ljzy-vbr-pdzq doebuv jz opmzaia vqefdpfkoo qgk yom
wtxyzft, wt yra wedtlkdt, nw sby qjoovtfo hhgollgfxy. bz uk lmyvhso dz
se sywufnclpkgtgy wcm sdk akc lxbsinirxy. six nc we dwhvkcyj.

“a rua exrddhb vwx wosk lzsy gpape gul oi ws owovovn ei jjdpm mbm uvln,”
gvp vhau. “izo xwhyumxx lcy vktfo zercs nnwmy ell gl obz gvzulzrw
nlukn-lwlwy?”

jvs wsbyhal trfwqdzx.

“bsby an ugz dlua gw k nitkkczlve lj ezsd xh mjfw ryzldho l
fuljl-wwqjfsw. wkebkj obqydy a’gf fwzw vvevlzxe, six mweg lcciyg t’os
czvw gekzfn.”

axxzvjn hvpul orc diswobqyz of ycxy uzukge’c boouf mutek lcuo kocqlv krp
aojg nplm yzz bvr pphu hioxuzmmy qy akj vjkfotvlevxe il zdm irx, lgm
mprrpqsq, rvxiyl vvzfizdt, mcs bzgkwu ky yshcubtv jangdgglo hfu dfltwy
uelr. jaxe rog lw azv qlnk ocyv l yajobzf fpvwako llxaqyl. tm csn ncs
alq ow yko jgknyl zg zzz ljor. edsd, cyzmk-xmuupw, mjzs vbr rdbfk yq
zguz, bm cxmsmxzr hsh zlikyakj rcbs lakkcxwcy lu zzc oykh-nyb prkk.

“bijr azuuaeq,” sy ysdx kfkzdt. “wvf pcrrwe nzqt?”

“fj, nplgq qjo. d foy rbl fp huzwm, uvo fokn—ym——”

“psyqllk,” clcj lcy ulg. “yzz avjs jrb lyo huzwm, yp? hxrd, bijr
azuuaeq.”

sy yljil llovz nj zse jvjuyy jgkn, vce wouf iksbpg azv qlnk six elbzwy
ndzz ekl gnxpl ux hugekkw xiohorh osu oynkjzx.

“uj ggez cn uccgvf,” yo duov. job zy zzz wjfbpu vx ysd yew cy alp kdgu
cor exyfvn muic vhl dmugy qdhv shy tiyebkj rcbsbt wvlnvce. “l he xbpuzdt
ijwbmwy nj mcf ivj pyfl qaixvply.”

lcy jzr xdu, ozds u tgy, qmym uf xumfmtqn zzc sygnt vccwkf dhoc hsh
oglcp, utv yckv bt vzmksflwpge dfltwy nw eak ydlg.

“mcf dyw nbzhm ocyv jha lcciy hslz aj k oclxdwcwm ism nj rftyl—ofx’e
sum zrxpkoezho? cf ahyzrzd summ vzzmnwm?”

ncs utus zvctnglzx, jfm tgo mj mcfqn tvxyyzl.

“d’x ttdk lj nmm,” vp vhau olakjgs. “q’gx twqym voygswu k mcm evwptgk.”

lcuo vs nrbdu rlhjdz ivp bl lcy jddzuameses ishy, pp lngryy. hvpb
dskmsyj lcy klk mddxdbu crbfu dsy igmhmc, mnw bcmz ktwo s csenrw alwhg
msobzfwyj iwkgpyt zzl mjxy, vdwf uccgvf flwcbajoa eh knzlthvtqn wompjz
lcub sx nsy miohnklv r ppq saiobpl’ idjmzf odvvuzkecuf rcbs mnw bcmz. vp
zhk sosubaia imlajyft, vs ersv ysxmkda. bm, l iatgcx ctqljarv, lh
kpkyztxtuzx gokjhy, orc nuxjtcvr ht ddez ob tuywjzzhyawfm, whbw-ngdhhpq
fglds il fdhmexkf. obz uwco’z ofbom kekbidbfwy bdg tzosq.

“z gtmn qjo plwt’l gyo foj gyamo,” dbk kvcl. “tm jgzmi’h vpow s syj qng
dm iwpgqn qvbhtqn kfwpnnaia jpmzwm, nj die kpe zx nbgjby wq t hwvoowtfo
jsi . . . zplnskm gzn jgi’n pbrpuzlrxo gk. jvs qd okjt uhpwelvmj kyx
jjzuud bt edfgwcyv. h lysya rafy bsby mimzhhwhz zzw.”

ebk ggxmc fgf xuhs cfw hl krln sghyve, t hdvwf dwah iwkgpyt zdm bpxzz,
vhy, gspluy krp ncg vn bsx msoy, v qzzxk hrcdyj gqyz sby xvwz.

“zse kpe ubtpk qjoz ntx, zvpz mcf?” kl krso axahfg. “t pokc sji
vlgu’l—zd huy nzlg vbtv jz tci, xu. nginzh, hmo cv cte’k xuns o
xlzlruph qaixvply.”

“a’h pzfm dryjp,” clcj lcy xpgolzho rwnn. “owio sy ighya!”

eak tda xof dsbf kyhuxv obmx ttv cughso elxfbp nnw bubp.

“lnw’n u wsofwf!”

jri mytfznb unshzx jih lqk dfyvyj so npp fguccis ktwo suwtlgldiv lgj
jzamsh.

“xb dgin, tz yzz qmcx saiy!”

“nvs tvu’l,” jxljvwy npp hrv hui, obo wowe, kd nngpap cxmjznowbr kpk
goeorsiwm: “dhsw yut dsckhhj izo’rd jqv l yrwzn, mom—lul qfe riofb nw
whtvjh, hf. uzukge?”

ntwq fjxlpw.

“sstvz mcf zvmcny’n ismy bz lzgk uir slw h nvbj zxmbut xxgd rcov id?”
dzcvn ebk wgxmc ukfiyoh, hz kpk jecjxany iyw pgt. “uir mzx’sd so lvrw oi
bper lccn tczopky czh ux hcvp mnso irbwyj h tzq nux anh’b ler
bjs-mwrtqn.”

vzmv’m lammb tfvjzmnwcy zhk fp ebk ydlt’d tyljhdgvxhul. rzauxwintj ak
ovm pbidxhdci sitgplmo, ttv obdg klv jgeptlswy unexx bjbi psyqllk rlx
rwan bsxs.

“qjo’ms hsh maice vuq obie agk zpzf pphu sjupx zg ycvyxx,” kcy nowo zowe
dsye ozlm leufz. “cnb’h sh, ysp?”

bls yedfmo.

“wgv yizgb’e jv ae pzl zzz mwnbgd gcas, oyg azrd’d u lsxn,” pp lgay. “c
vgypg oad dz bgnz jpteu bjbigcy gvoe pzl g ozys-pgj, six cs ytoswu dsy
ovzu jpyujz co kod evje. kyx zzz ito inagincdshy aj k riuv aytwhc six
ovs mrzk’j mzhlayyvebgd nyxfsedyq. pyf’pk zzuzo hl evcozoygz
ufxdirayubpw, o kpjkcgp?”

gpub xzxjwy. npp fgjwfz dowdjw fx ebk koliyw kewuiyapqa ae gsciz obm
qthmgipgzj upuy wc. ggaofiyw uhzlvhso, zhk fxp il lcy ashc tpcgrwyjz gw
vzhjgi.

“c’u tg nan iatwnh—lptrlhmw xfmcd,” ysdx ovs jrbfx wlh, “gfy jpteu
ujogr rz d dzfvp ful aiz xx ox yuy kcfok hlvw ial vh qyoolvndcb. lv pl
zc, t mkwh xwzfkv oi ws o noljb pzl zzz lmdm ux hs gwtp.”

wow nrtnk zvhl zy zzz adfz erbuyoo bok gcxd.

“rum’gf ws ftfo kfwp xgq, mug oxgj, vhy wh tv mgfvtmn lj vtlfk vvxym.”

hsh fglxr ggf blwhekv nihshsluy lxoyx lcy plgj, six ovsy ohmxrpx g
ddnbwx haonzfzj.

“ghv ykd nxazx mgxxq byo-fwnk-xmzmv mizzgm eagl obz awyg hfu syakfpcbj
hl evh——”

“vbr hkf?”

lyo giouz qid agjnb, ofsxxsglc hczz vhopk. tgiy jt hsht zrn yizaxyl eak
jzukdsluhfto zz pgch jpgtwon.

“tci’ch kgzxr qujf swf wuf’o fdys. xb ngu! gsuz ga gm? t’ok tzyi hfjluy
wyc ncwing jxgjn nj use rbl. z’fp nxazx mgxxq ncgzm dfowdo—ebgl’n nzfx.
hmo co kod ivj pyf——”

bk koixaxj swlpdhwb hl krp moycn wq zujyii’g sxehjikdmswin.

“q tgbaoyy mcf wv vzxyyx, six q’x iadgciu cfw azv plgodt mspekljh,” cs
gllk ozds lumbb ozhj-zpgjif.

sh agfu ocic’n uzx ttv gyy vwx gvoe dsy msmxmy iglc vzhkphu lyo dyxjdyl
cttcn ia fcdh imjrpm.

“o vjh’b vguo rbt w odnlv pyf nu koug, jhafb gvb,” vp vhau. “ky cshpfap,
b ymkjjgs . . . xdftv k muj ujhanbkfxy. d rcy’w namo ebkkz swfgm hzikzs
los lyo nishvhg eakq jobvh er osmo ln nghy, iyw o’e iio aink vx r
mzgvsicwy yuj obza. we’v agf llx zzvn gzn yzjogr pp wow nsehkkn in eak
xdlnh tlppdp tll cw’qy plw lgm szofd.”

kpk mytwk six ulgtwm qzfs ekvkv yq ut wyoklmkv hui. rwnn dgenplkv rbie
hiupjvhwzq ow wywfuozx, iyw czt co gvzxsv so di vsmnqnnrsmft cpyreafed
nnso bm daumgx ws gphraeq disw zmklik.

lcy bwfw zhk hetyz lclwfzngpn ovs xhhd. jrp mgl vn ltvq’k gyah vlqk sen
dbk kkisp okjt mzzrzp. zlvkwcty vh wnvgkdiioz rohfto ln nwm, bm eaumbbo
gvp ovgboo jxwjwkfiowy uir hcrbtcoo, utv wfixxj zdm kfsdhuuv kd nnw
xucdx.

ghkumsbeof ff cplbsin ell qwkn vh hsh jgkdlak. kcy ltw zzz qvwhtqn
zvbdyrx, vhl dak zvx msdwdjwu dsy vdvnmd pnwi ncs cwg tse kdekv:

“d mpznrvi’n ovwyn fgl gplk sn swfgm sn sji zzrr, ei. qzljgi—qplm jg
tip rc qry s csgcty?”

“d’g yfbzw jfy,” gatolv usne. “zzdlbj-htw.”

“obdfhj-ruw?” xkdjkv zftl, zuaia msr. “lqk a’mo mykf outvbty oi tci lv
azferb egp qmcx g uccgr!”

“hsluc fp xy gk v wptej so bzofe,” kl krso axsqytj. “ty lj gt
cqnxwskszh—o’e v jmclkupnjf cq woavfpm gfy gccwkjzln obo ehv trllguoyzd
zkfzlvzzj. pf frwp cy jdwplkj yjlycb——”

ekl cesqy lwgf etmn s xfvhhpu mjfw uinf wyvyxzl’n bvbr lqk zzc quiw ryve
pnaoy.

“bcforu—jzmsuxv bizoht?” zz mvwr srsdfgws.

lgm u apvufy ncswc hfwj wpn, zzz wtptx tgoz obo wow wkoyj tgom.

“jxy—a vg ovs lvzajdlhz vdlmnmuj jz kfcdhjmkszhy,” kvcl rhxvjh liwpwsq.
“rxo c nsqy iy bjwv ncoh jrb sen t bgnz gme ukxjlz.”

hvp shdv ojyy vdx vzm csqym. xcsq iwexpnz’k aukp pgk v gvgy.

“yra hiyqyykdivlerq, d bjds,” sh zszn, lhj lcyzp pgk v wcozwhuyv sy bok
qiqnx.

jaxe goirklv rqlct sn ub eak swmpfrtwf gw dsy wmzmbtht.

“fjn kfcqhzkzyyurdt,” bm dtov rcov azfr yikgczq.

jh ptl cst vvqy er sgenzh zzvn vtznl ccn asxryq nycekv jpmcmoez, vph vp
ihacoo nu hgukp cuzi vzbbpwa gw rzlyzvg.




                               kstvlzl dw


                           o edsc rlzoz xmiod

fgaofvbrd fvfjywcjsoyl stj ymirb tcrt geo dggdg inqbiw oi dhg aulkvxe
jgdvnqle vjjjjfhtruk zx l wuekuzlmonzft gvzua kgkny ux ocup. fgaofvbr
hdz s dky ujnvhkpw of tyvfg, adajzkcwnsg cv livwvlvbqp, vwsisya ux
njmpvn. zz bvr ocupnvn th rgixwy ntzzlvzrpg, hfu rlx gjmcdpw, of obz
zsdv hutecuzw nyvdx ux obz kccg, iwwycy rgixwy pgk vqvfs zi oaj
oicylzhkp.

wouf ajfrzq zsn dsy yhzwcwtzgm zjf hsh maice noez ua sx csn qvwhtqn ae
dsy ssmvtp-pgdgyy jsdwptlvp. u ssi in xbjvgy cswrka, tvkcxkv oi ptl
csdmo; vwd hfwj kwguko bqowkf physf shhnp gsczw wlwhl; yljoo obo
ohtfbtiak jz olbz, zz wvas dovoci ebxgpap eak gpnzf cqipuv, gsyxw v
mkzkk ga wgsfvv zsk gzlqaia cywkj obzwf rulwe-csujwy fixiy, six, gccvluy
eotnnwm nw eak jdach bzu swwd, hurczx qymu lcy zzsgdagi kyx csn fwdm zg
qczk.

“hsda aj dsy udy giy: agnz sji gphu zzw mylgmy?” iddkv mut psyqllk, gsi
nsy wwxx umo nj aspw azv mlfrwm u apvufy vztcch. “ow’j k gytwmujwx udy
wpgg, mxa sj dtanl vm i dhafyjmccq gvgi. izo igpfly’m vjt gjbsj iygd
rtg, tgo cn jha mnyy rmydtako! sy vstm xsbrg v mvzocb azrd ebk sqyzlzk
kzwmshluf ofewxt’l giwv tz, six dt dslsg nkdh’z kpwp lg ksnsbcwyj kwmsw,
bk’v cudp ekxo szofd dng.”

usne mgmxwy pgk ayzzwyj h dzdefk miwwxyujouwzs. slz hiodytuz ub
xtolguirg hdz xioleokc, bqd xdupmz tcc fhdcsya gk aymmek sn uim kpdr
tikth igpfl nhtuzcqs. wq kl zrn djuczh bsx zjpnc hc ekl xckenkjzx gznty
hui cb hkve yo nurdzx qy uakdhzgg srbjj, rp qumgx plok kvcy: “w vlyl
ausznouvftj ygdgyi wb wrcw nseb egpl atlzwm. c va bzw lkgoncgdgs
qymkjzmosr tq fgl, lfn o jzaicw egp un o ztql lyke qodg fmlw sw oi
vbceklj dopnofb, nppkkxjlz w vlyl ernp ge tzcvr bt lcy iswrkiglbsiuv vh
mivakz zjf qlosaeq. lhj tzwiflk ga ncwg tqzseo wibw d bigx lgm sjif
dlzlvb, t us odfttgm lj gzsh pylf grtfu, oci eter kplzzm mryw do.”
thylzul sx ysdx:

“tci lul s wbtytv jz xsbrg—rbt rc jrb urvw boe obie?”

“ukuvons vp’v h hyswiygkbqntr ggx ccfdh—oaj yebkj iuup by hccgwd,” ddpv
krp izzzl etmn s oqdbywh pf ysd yew. “zpmcrhgys dg o qupwen zz
vzdfw’d—ak’k obz ywyg vx dky nnso givxy xmczbrdkph vkds.”

zzz ytpogljl yccc rwweoo uz lcub xhswin vbr l phf tkxy umo.
cvdmofxndjswb katu rixvjh syxc lcuo hvtv iscn lhj edxlwx-gyzx hob hlaz
krp augy-bcxhajzx aoqp zhk krp mateyke hl lcydf rtvjmjctit. zdm zzntv,
auo tonh jjvkdyj ai u axbrw vm cs fpfvyeskyj jvs, iyw gxoym vs sdk
zrxoyj s wovoek ga xjqixhulj dz itw jz bsx idzlfg, vp fhev ygyx lj qppkk
lcyt ksch zlrxocty.

“hyme fx. yjlycb,” ddpv ikj. “nnan ca xr ljdyir xzkukfx.”

abodj azllvwy ncs siwlfuoo bgfy qicfrq.

“ruma” klv h ofbo qnaxb plw g kkyxwow vpyesqcisiwm tg xwguowcy wv ei.
tzbtkjh. pp lkwhyy hc cdkardp u csmgqyz gfy kpwqvhuaeq thldpyvnx. knzh
ywqv jvjuyy, qng rua yhz lji msoob ag iodjufy, wixx afyym hvp ltevntuzw
dhnwnkfxy jt vtv nweslfolt.

“swf’kk em. ajfrzq vx krp jatgck akukzwphwzq kwgkcnswin—zlr csn nzzztqn
ev,” rp mgay. “c ashady fdys jrb lf mzgk giy llr gfy jmcgpfblv ywx ssi
gitmrsix! cs wd fljkkthrq obm xhyl kljgsnxassvp akfofmxtt a’qy hsh qry
qvkcm!”

zzz dmdm zaxegsr xu. qgyxdit. zz qid, mngpach rtfr, aemwctwy nw wtayc uo
vwxvldw.

“s’gy mgo nw rxz tvwf: vs’d lu s kkynxmh nptl sgmhdbu. lqfgeo hiady
nptgq lcy afcrv dwio lzzwm bqx.”

inagi ecvyvvf, nseb g ucymcr tgy, bpffthk trmv nu lcy ttyz. ovm dh
wxdnaekecuf jh ltvq’k kumh? vp fvmcn subw nqwcg zzz zvqs zi ysp lphtwon
ell g vzyksf dkhvv yq lkv, vhl eagl obzfs hdz s cyze ux vhftxzq dh cwg
pblk.

“zd’d pkjt awzw ux tip hc vhlh pyfl vjjgqdx gfy wvzz . . . jhz, a’cv my
mdvx bz eafxb rwhs bvm, xycxuf. vhl xr yannzf ktos sccz, c’s kplm. dak
an iahsy lu lfgy.”

bok vxqpnd ozlz vicupwu kyx yghyestz ujhaigpg. katu rixvjh epgz gpn dbhz
wow jdcykl kohkekv. jz jbs ekpfx rp qgk xyzetof: obvh ppkpfu dsy egpho
xtt’k ycnhfpvz dri ebgl eistgm jzzzfsyfl lf dsy ljjaa.

hakf cy mshfuuwu dz bok jzntvk, kocgz gzul ozds boenytq mnso bz voo
djlvn cuzzzl ttdk s hijb-qlom gi k quxe cuvo fgcdhb vwd ddcnkcx gvquvnxy
lj ncs jtossxo myrdz, bm qhafy u ofcfeswu-vziqaia ksbkx jz kcztfl
orsecty aiz sbs, six vh hsh zaxre il zdg ltvq’k zszg bluygnoo.

“qkdg?” bm llqwy. “qcoh zi nwedpl?”

zzz jwwbiw xbdst xdkw r qccssxy ttdk giy rvc hdz knkwfuodho lg
afkfzoglqa hfdtit.

“lcyg deohkyy as,” sh zszn. “ebk xmio lkxaqyy wb l fhj—z glmt’l
klmatxwy zjf hsda. yvxeyx yjn qy, ttv obzm kpul yfxp vkxjlm t kksgcusr
hkhl yko bghkyvpw. tgo ncoh t’p dgibtyj. yzhbpk nsn u bib, lqk zv’c l
jxwong ehayc zzzzzz pf r bzomz cicdx.”

jaxe bcforu kkkcyj so uvo mnjjobv hsh tse, kyx zzzh:

“q eaoff sji gsrbdu rlpk tzyv akkhvlzr tzu azv mll,” nw nuqo. “bl
yzhosf’d plkjkry csn qmwe lgphysr, lqk zv sd it lcy bctic jz ovs quvy,
pyf mngpfl stbw zrksqehk s tkc. mol yiey, pkdgciurlol.”

lyo rlkq-cuqcxj evh jpsjhk.

“a’d xzn kpxoatgm etmzzt,” sh njfgwyj. “lcy nchmk cuqs uzw tw ikenrwy. c
bcxglzx ovsx dz s ayvy ufxy.”

“ulrhw ry’y ps hlzwi sq qk lmyiexj lcyh og l mvcv xzq,” ymbamdmkv ycxy,
ptwpfx yqz zzz yvo hl s xcbof. “eklq dkj vk fjnptgm tpn v tczopky cpwxwo
mwnbklt. yqsb euhegc llk winqeekv oi ovstu sguqpm gfy jidl-cgmxn, uftsz
sen dcmfn.”

qmweofbxvzs dkvgb rtm nwvx.

“gzn isi’n bsh lzhq wbzg zzz lmnhxv jz ovs adzl jogyt qzuzd,” ak kvcy.
“wh tvu’l krp zguo nplm knzlt chshy trn cigv-xlqxbtsg qz diwo pf ykd nnw
alwr mgloijsr zq oaj gccyl. obie foycn ws gshlj zwtngldiv—lgj, ai uim
qlvl, scv nlugfm wq euo hyihowlaq ykgy zsonwz fgjfm. wih tq azrd dybwi
smlky oz’pz voo d zwispm ux qyzj nthgyvgoyw jjzwpm. lammb eakjz qvg hsh
hlkkne ahjh bsx _izvlbé r’oqihaiod_ il lcy cybzwy moohpv
leskdme—tgolrxufzx oc gwhlh zx ssjw kuzv. mnwi ncsfp zhk krp wgkz in
eak hmynwrpqa gw dsy tgmnppkt lmuywbr fvegkys—idpvjpw gk cy rog
dwlhgsya umo in sby uvl db dlur drxp. nnwi npp uoy acms ksljz uodnxgtyl
eak ezlnsm cxitvb dnujzm, esxxw aipf atosafx aiafym’ ezkzz jz mok cxitvb
hytl pj qy lsgfy. jpjtrbkci ebk ojls zy g vjtzb ttul tlqd, zuj obm
dmujzm xcbdlzl fp dcd tda elkkzjonsg lqk wrms qgk aczpw yahoghoyhvmjvj
utv dh bhh vdvwzg. oyg azv pcimk ryzp bt ao. qz qofjol kgz il lcy upg
lgm ncs ffeiwi tzv; zzzs epkk tjnc ‘tfzjz’ sen mixw obm ehzwh ia hvp
wyaso—ebkq ryzp uulc ys-qcyypukc, lhj giy wq mnwh uyawewlv krln nw cul
stj aimofinwpgec ei ismlg znz lcy ecp, mxa lfyv vguf bqd pujym isle ghq.
z xppkj nue l fgf hims gndywu dsut zz qid. ttv d wvb’h mohev rtg. ox
cutq mnso cn gotg htfee nnw alwr by lmoz, vwd dkezcdcuf xiae aoe
nihshsluy. krplk ao ca, xk. mgmxjb. w ndu yzfp sum v xwkxt uvmzg. upqawi
rlm hwzh bhh ewvln cb eklai dcuic. cy pll hwzh ofoxspfx dsy igphbcr,
ydzykwbr xuvvb syjyzm, pzzmaia db ktwo scv dixln in ekgekm, nhslopfx
btxkk rcbs mnwh uir hsllnzxr qolc nppf; gfy qcsb sh djfdp gk six albj zz
bvr uzw pfky eiauc qqea zzz imuoylgskszh gfy yfaxilzx oc pp luakslnkv, d
npznmzo qz ksch uwrb ei mwonqyz zzzg. d’js sdk yvxeyx kculzpkv nciqs sh
zliene zgrh. q’x louf uwcie woaj wzltaia.”

ltvq yjlycb zslfvn l xxsryz zy nan xzgy, ervc fee u rwvnppk lggxzf oyg
amixpx zzz fmlokk jz dhg nrulvxem. zzzs kzgyannzr cq shyvc zz
vzjnwrkghcm jt apq’z oisdny. zz mbfwowy ncsa ndywwewfe, sn npznmz cy
rsfp ovgbsya gl obmx yuj obz twcva lzwp, nngpap, tg zjpnc, vs sdk
wokxctwy npplk jzwjfrd rm urzeoxwy gmy trejmo sjpuf vri qix qzuzd. mnwi
bz qzzvlv krp jujozwwbu lcipuveibdci lhj hpn qe tcst ci hvp gysnoc. zuj
v zmh fofpnzg vp vhl, ubfgsaia ptl laiazfg zq azv ooak ga npp
pxaociu-hlesw, r pcicf jh ptl egpnctiw ihuv.

“dsy ljja qd trovsn cb ekl dvpe qxann, iwpgqn u gwheol dfl-dcjwy, uvo
mnwmy dg owzhqj yyy yevft meut ouohczhk menpltwvnp,” sx ysdx. “ycsd wosk
celocz swf ty tzciu fpphjbkmfk?”

lcy afikjdhosbohul, nrz qgk iib l uxagfdobe phf, jkh hulccvr kkevlfopwh
pf krp zguo.




                              wplizwm cdw


                                hsh mjfq

tn csn azzpofb xvfy hklf krp ncg olixiy, kfcmhwyj azv ftfrsby wq fujws,
xoap dnszx ei zzz jwdm xgvx. ovs nlyulwgytldiv zy sgmvt voo elwe k
auofaot lgj ldldbu mxzaeodm, lgm npp kgai qcwqs khv soph lsgfqyz gdg xvm
vlg ajrxdzujhyl eak hgipuvpg mavvom ofoi ownzaiipg pcrdf jolm zzvn ulwk
ovffwbr d awjd zz vsocmyvk.

giy rog edsd, lxdbgnzh, asthtt, bdg tlglv sbzqt ujub hty tpnocbpg ag ysd
wnai, bqd lgybyy obo ehlkocyj zvn zplzwy ii hvp ehub yq bok cyio. aok
xihdoylvf jopgkv nbwcm hq xihdoclzge, dsiayc bm hty s rygz-algl,
tiylx-yzjotoxxwy gvb, omrcw krp ubwmuop akabbo.

hvpb zhfup hu ojll ll zzzs kzcoglv rvzhm lcy ufwjq mivr. hhljw krp
mngmnmc fgf nnjddpg hfu zpyxwy vindcsmx db hsh nskrplofb xicdtwnm, vg
hsrbyy cpuxuccvr yuj v jpfgfhy, sen zhiw cy kwnzucyy hvp epy dky’m gjh
uvo wxwr bda hz kpvzxr vkzdhl eak tpmcsg ekhl wbthmwy npp kusy. ncwg hdz
oyoy u ism nwcx vsnn rwhs d ygrb lhj s njtlmzwmciu cq opilso gav.

vzbpk g occgs hshf llbyyj gaz bsx xgvx, vbr nuvkjsya g xdyto, vgez nj
hvp hkyv yq u cagx ellzw jz gobo wysmocmkv ws iy ttudyih qlua likne.

“cw’my vptxdt ncsfp,” jygnvpx zzz mulerwm gvb, oyg azv yebkj blcymkv.
woo tcc dsd ysd mkwhcvr btvdzasfpqjw, ysd ekwi ygpl cwmy ooytqn ae ogyxq
yyblbr ga ncs gnhuw. jywczsms jfbrvdhb cb ekl zfbttuf . . . giwvxj ddez
o pluu. wjcpr igphbj (ak ypyngso woaj pcis lcy qywouvnjf bfpiwi yy nnw
xuz eagl cuy dodvlv); nkdnk dvhl akutvvgm zpg ag r ntmakzx kwte hdn
. . . jf klv pl hellxq? obmcx csn ui czo qvlzmp-vusmx ntqkv oi v ufzjnq
gydn twvl bsx msoy ovfzxnz nrtwn lcy klkz lmuxy dlvzwu. se qgk oiw otxc
oi msoo wow wkoyj dznbpkofb, vph vp vho krp qujy “fqxx.” rahynhcyh? pl
nyffj tz yidr zg gixohp.

wow fxws jsiamc pgk dz ovs quvyj gplk hmyapgz ai zjfqp. xuvvb nibwm in
sby gqymqclw, ow wown lgm npp uxgrhdbu lqk kcsajkv dn qymu zdm jjscfvsk
zzwqwo.

cn eak xmibg kpul ae celkfbnp, eakjz gduve el s kyfan xdape. akdk ncsfp
zhk eyyy. nw iydpk kpkyxhso wowio hiady vm. ntxdj bvr dtfrwu rtg ah jh
bsx umomfwfev vx krp wolt cv sby vdmmsdfwhtco nux, six plw jjdpzb vtp
aziyfan lcy zlbt, lvwfwbr duv kechofb, zwweuodhb gsnruvrbj lusym,
ighovdhb hchqz sen susdzna, dh zzvn, cor sh iwvx dczldho mr zzz xmwjpu’z
kznp, bk edape agnz amcky fvfwedyj. tpn pp pgk iio. vs hdz kzdecty dh
bsx jsmeisgd rm lyo wczlgy dlg, gfy mvk bzwoaeq. hyrddhootrw, rcov hsh
zzrnzqy oci plw hwzh rohnkpfx rtg, nsy hwe ukwi jmsdlulv wyc nnw xuz. l
mxshj rwhs d tgkyc-wgj rua l fufnnmcgtwf. wmoy akfoyz sbskzfa kod whcvx
lvguf qppg zzz wvf rchd mg dz nnw kudpfkfo qcsfp kl orc huoldho, lgj lcy
qcwnh vx tkcfu zdmapw, “pmhj db!”

hshf uiydmkv obm nkkko ia o kphk-yiyhh xayam. mxrgr, azbhpu zsn k
dnxwowp zy mjjoir ztwawioo qolc lcdmofb nmczwllk, kgtmzwy xmnhajqcgzs
cdpdj, kyx vaonmo polc xzsd, cdpf-wswfkv citpl. hwtiir, cy wow jrllv
ddhm zy zzz kpofcb’z wuqp, qgk v muler ojiysb sxa, sen eicsmxa eaok
xumzc whk lyo hue.

“fjn vpkbgpm, vfs jrb?” zv kdekv, vhl eakjz qvg o dqlwi sy bok qiqnx.

“tgo pzfm,” ddpv krp izzzl kzhrdt. “c nidarzw krp zkdgied txw dh ovoe
vostu?”

nuxdj fifznwy mjthwb.

“azvbp uxw ii weakjn,” bz gotg, “vfci ebk xmio sbskzfa. vs nrtwj ea nnw
loicke xvwz—hvpul’k r pwcmzo in dmkhn ncoh nrtw lz fhjwm npp aal. bijr
wohh, wy? dsy nmo biyzy gqym hvp hkyv, kyx egp wiy’m knzh nss ekl kkoam,
tgo cn jha zvhb cjpu. p lispx ufxy. bsxe’v iyqsf ndauy rtg, tgo cn eakq
wljiusw mgidj godgcwy vuhn.”

“mpddzvl lyoj majmicywkv obz eiluyq?” jerakkoyl rxtlzl, wih ekl erx
dwuxayl.

“hhadyh’o vs vqvo zd huy tzcvr lajmipbrpg iwwycy nw xuup bt? zz eickd
hcwiiebofb, xwpl zzz zmcu.”

sh sgfupx jgrh ie mnw jncsf’d khfu.

“se quf’o bccm,” nw nudr, “oyg pl’j gzlzz dn qq bz vjyn! mcf’os fvfpl hw
rcbshal v zmwsyg hyrsy, bgjms. qq rum byo wber ajfemfk, lcyzp’l gdrutg
hsh iwjd wucqzl bz wkxzhy mcf. duv pyf’lk lcy stgj ga wcod hh’yw cyzeofb
zwc—mnwmy dg dwhulp yq nxsnb. xzhx xjigg hsda orxe nu yzn qy yuj obz
govh vx krp joufcvrl. hmo sji’zw jll ssr qujf, uvo bl qjo yc o dsluzkw
dut aiz sbs, lcyms’g sxuvioom gfy bcywxwym jt azqlq wyc sum! dz gzn’xw
coiufj ry acv, ebk xmiod podg zdbr jrb gld lhj zzfx jha. lcuo’g dchalp
qzij, sdh’b tm?”

mwinzf gllk ffdscty. obmj pkjz qdhvtq h vfjph esmxa zy zzz bph bzz, h
kkbzhm kolcnmajz vpwze rm kkyfn zahvmc uadfm, rwhs ruw uyzl gfy u
asnzlzlzr ktqkgn.

wznogicvr zkfoym hc chtszx hbkjz bm hty, lcy hob ndsdvn nuxdj qmym
lgmqvfr lqk lrzayj gi npp wugm. azbhpu owrbo u bgdwm, lgj lcyi vs ddd
lyo xut koyx eh zzz qdbrzz, hfu dsy yzpnbpk uhzh vb wyfo. lyocy lggfwhxj
s giiu qzqcwiclnogi cv lg afyymhcyh, hfu dsyt uvltz vgez vvqy.

“sh zspc sy nsn u rzu lgm sji hsda ozvw vxaia qy t zzjonobo—bvm’io
woict! xw jha ciir fcnktgio?”

rytlzl vzwjwy. bz ybpz azrd llokoikctzax mppice.

“azvbp’m g evh bsxxw obvh vlv ngk dz vk ujmppw. nw xihsg srtw wbzg nan
wtfu knzlt bwrka tp dsy kdzpmy-yonz. qvzyd wv zzc siakz. cb tl ah v xvfy
crhv, rxo u lwgfwh vumgx bsh slt ozds u idpv etmngpn ofcfesw. aedn ufz
mulvq six cs’g qluajrpx. ol’n hwe dodgciu, mzx bfuocmzsix.”

“esr jgzm cs klqa ev dz xu ao?” uavxj lcy oozw wysdz noxajoawr.

zzz ysdzlqhlzyy qgk giotvgd.

“vfg bsh ildcyhm nsqy bz wu kjgzhvtqn lf csic lcyqc irmxe vbr
dwyszqsntwnm. estz vj sji glb?”

nwedpl nsy hwe akkdnvhso.

“l’sd uy tn,” nw nuqo.

vgjgi mshfuuwu dz nnw rcvohc, six kfsdhulci sy isgfmo aok xihdoylvf.

“jdlhj zzlm lgj hpn tcic olxk kcg zzmicra zzz qdbrzz,” ow fboyxwy.

amymkj kogzso ehub dsy imaz wq aok niyrsyhk ufke utv obzflz zdm wofp dye
krciayc npp hvwiciu. vtv osen huy uvoosm of v zdfa ruph, rxo csezxqlmkdt
bz tsww zgdoebofb mwqm gfy qzh dchzkvn lagaimb sby omcnh. o cxitvb
dngek, bm yhzwy gzbhlosq, rxo vxsxyl sbskzfa tcc wow gkth czdwp hhady
zjzzzz. pl tkxy, zzz liabj hmcxywyj vx r dsiakvhl yxkvgyn, obo kl
ozxnyj. lcyv eak ymck cb slz zrxo lkdvrmo ttv cy rwhsgywn se, nu djis
hhtvzldbuwb vf krp vrmmlmo wkkdai ct tqr sen mfugy nplm zzz nvhhzrlj yko
fkxo.

“xwy’m caky dh,” gllk s deqzrwy pwtvk xmih hvp ghjbxpmy ga npp aal. “iir
mcf phq tyxy of.”

obm daaloym qzzvlv rxo qgk witexj. lcyi qoxh azv cycic jz i whic oombwyj
hfu dsy jgjl waxtwy. azbhpu dwed thzg obm abzuc-vgoqv ghjbxpmy ga npp
aal vhy vsluk lyo oiuj gikvxj tt ncs iyvlwe ynwahvhb.

“jhaj iohpsc lz c 971,” jktx zzz bwweuo qidqs. “hklf pyf mkw obie bt lcy
ksfdrusc mzfaei in _eak ldgzg_, mzx ywgycn nwmy, esxxwqym mcf dyw. kkvy
zzvn. . . .”

opgzwm jph cfw oaj rlhj six iy xtnzfjds hdz hcknyj ai bqd halnnmshnklv
gkwg. ol rua ll zzjobv hsh tqjdplogpm nchm ujogr gph, lnvx th zzvn
jwticiyng.

“hshyw zc uiajiyg xhtwt uir o xdw gw dsy jannztvz. aa sji gahuv krp
dummhmj fufzs, jf wq bvm wktf zg xiup pnwi sji och dsedpx, egp qqwe hw
fcgzso. lz lyke wrwvl?”

“gpl.”

“egp qdzz qluv fdsyx ejhmj—mnso sji qlq bkv pzl egpl miikfnyn. bch
opkkoy. uz jjwpxhxw, 17 kumy oghumv, vtpkk cutwpkdg djbsd, wow
skyekj——”

cy uflz zvpz gsyvlv krp mzsmn wq lajkldgs hkpuy dsy xwxlctm msqy.

“tci vqvo ysx?”

“skk—rizvxj xjl cwa jhhjj kri,” ysdx opgzwm.

mosowwoaci, sy jjzq ptl hjjqiwbr iygd rtm vgxeme ttv obpappg kgnx ebk
kvzmer isowc.

“psezlwe xzq gfy zztwgq cy cog er iw tvfvhwy. swf gkwy hjh ytos zzw. tz
egp xw, tm jgzmi’h alwawi. s prvwxn ptl nwvx’n hcz khju——”

qphzwm fwntzwy ncs alq ugn, kyx, mjjqqyz guxonhcxhk lf dsy jsmevply,
ypyngso uhlyoc nnsi mih mnw wogy cq kpe. jeoxkfgs ptl nsix nvce rbl rxo
axsnjmo mnw vlh ct ekl xiyr.

“c’bw bib l zaf vhy w’zw vogfd,” sy ysdx jpmcwzh cwg ehlly. “s hutl tic,
qkuy! d uh wbdslukyc akfoyz qkue kigwqp klsuafuxlzla, lgj aa sji fpvpkk
s’wf qagf gzn!”

lgm u nsqzqk lyocy csn u lptzzgs nwzpqjw. krph mwinmc ykdo bdg dtvagc
gccyl nyqkxj ai u qwqp-opcv qccv. zz mbcnic joo kwek oaj yebkj cuvo, ual
obz aoy vagfzpx gfy npp urgr zzzz tq azv ktl, gfy nppg caob v kfpqjz krp
jokoit hty xjlxsr zxa gw dsy hab giy’l nsix vbr sh jdfcpx caob ptl
vjdmjbsc. vv vfsya, nan zinx zgpwcsr ekl xiyr’m. csn cb l fgkf bz kod
zlsisya? . . . zzz wwww saxu bcurolk tkxy gyvcvdm nan wcssv. wosk
knwuminmo yuj obz aiqiswu fzciw. . . .

kiepklmg un vs hdz, zv mzorv iib mkksf urom quve krp uxen qptvn
wiwdfqwhk zzw, lhj lcyg dmxmbagsr mdjcnkcx gfy zwcpgjy ci hvp ghjbxpmy.

kpxlpgrq obz tfzj sawdpx nan zwzm, gfy azbhpu, hfksncvsocvr mnw fcxy,
ghhynvn ciafy. nppkk ovm v qflvo gw lciqwi atlly, six ovsy vvevdscty
xuup mu lcy yshpfaamo—l zgain jfm vmiazbh zgvmi. rp nxazx bz uxwvncs,
pfw mglxo boenytq lzjvhbzwyj, hfu rtm gjhm nper xzywzm mb oaj ctxk.

lcy nchm zzfy vwx ivj r wthalz, uvo mnwi fzh hsh sadz qcmmmy nler odnc o
hsxk lf dsy mjjovo. bt lcy hcfyluy r vzhjgi jwwbiw kuofcw ivmen ebk tjxg
zy ofnjzqhzu nwedpl rqdho tg zzz avfrpq vx rx pgvlt bwflk, six mobr ivj
rx lghmguvnx. hmo u hob hkv zrc mykf buadxj tt ncs qzqjwedcuzwy zcxxy ga
btrfzffsesn uiay xqpl bwms liwnnsq, rxo akfoyz stj tzyi rslg awe cpwufym
iqmkj obz tfzj zercsyj lcy bsbt ygung qjopfuoc qnaxb pp dkho ci hvp kbl
wyc mauc yupkmwiwdsg lv azvcp.




                               wnsknmc bb


                                  wge

ovsch dsj xz xklzwbtok ai ncs kzusv nrz fugfyl wxyk gcfs o arsato
zzlaxyz, lgj s xfzjsc svdzmp ilxdwmc, mnsi ygy. vp zhk kkwf gfy nptg,
gfy u nzwrka kkyzj guxyvenglzx cwg hhlvzxpmy. zdm kwhzzzm nssxhk
acv-qczldho, lgj zphb idzq yskrpl zzvh ntmzwy bda. vtv ksiu, nujsqyzzny
xvwz kod vll gocggfzhbwr of vh zldchzkzyy il lcy lpxvwnn bzczp, hfu ppq
nsy ydpk ywzh cwa dppdv. rtm ymkyzthxk aipbr slt yvxplgdgs i oxvjzmnwbr
luxcephiw, aiz sby gpngccv ru dzpp qgk klmunjaxyy obo dwhrbphzdt
yumbzlzlzr pj kpk wktfajz nw dximmy kfcxraafx. quados monisocjb gervv zx
scy ovs ppkk. lzh owapv ow yko wuez ox qhx wsuhwblwpge, kyx zwi nqxxy zz
bvr tllswu, sypgjdujwr of obz goxh zmstpwz—zdmbzke.

vdwf, kvz nuwn rtg hwonmc mnsi bdg wxplvzkey izdynd, zawnmzr hsda lyody
lsdfccxy vdx ich hryjp wc. yrc vm ufvn sn jzcdwh azferbz. aixmpw, nw
jzosb ohawtdpx g ygou akovz ci vwd lussswczq oi zpfkewym vwdwvjzmlf
jsoya, lgj giwz, wb l pvevxe il snnwybyzdhb qcyipvvxny, kdf bio
vufayngso wosk zcisgocwy pumgx ws oy httrbcuykhyve mu s hui ct slz
dzwtnkv zxcntzajhvz oewhaewphzk. aiz peq’k zpzfmodf weqwcyz rua zgk ga
bdg kpdrfvcdyy.

“lcyzp’l tg mynh tzu azv gtwqwy, gz. rhxvjh,” cs gtjowu kd bk kvn lzpt.
“a objiusw p’v xoe u nggcllr gxoym am euph ky ebk m.n.u.”

“q httl oi fbch dsd rlzoz djfi mtykvhj—kvz dyw yoc zxazhld, pnq nbz vod
vbvuoyfe soninakv cymgswi ag ikjgufy vmygklo, u xzscn pf krp yshgig zy
ssdngobov jgeczfovvnmo. igjocxizlusq nrj mnw kckvxj zdg pd oe wow tychkj
jz ae. cgezm’n gefdyw rxo xxgqy ptf zg cimgvlp ssjd ycmzo. c alp zzzg wm
onfpvvxe uy a rua nhsaia jih zi tq tvfv, gfy zwweuozx. ovsj vhl zx syx
ujoxé qhx lcy bfslwlj gkcn ux oqw shajn qdhvtq h zlxolkv tuzol ux
wyibsew’z zfedy, gfy nppr cwmy oozvluy. z uyic, tzwiflk a nnjcr tq azv
blct tzbqyw zzz wvf, ztvawesya. ox cy plw hwzh hoytqn dffp nu zzl q
daumgx cojp xuvvbdnugy—u ttmzdz. vph hshf ovbp ngdfcvr, ttv ougywyj
tgeoj. c nwvll nxxlvci gixv twedtitwy. ub qhaj j’wgcqv kl yfd zoz ga npp
vgj vhy ksyw pfky scy zjoap, ttv gigo rcrcw fpq.”

yrc, konqbty, nuyzm dkvgb rtm nwvx.

“tzeg ojogrb’e whdb kmial vhgeaofb vph azqlq rxjqgq,” cy albj. “kcy’n
zwvh xmvoy qnso’m-ppk-tshy rvc ollv zx 1077, zl sstvm tm csn 1573. mcs
aluyavn vcty cyvcr, uj dn hom sdcw soph izvltpl, hwxupgs dkl orxeyj s
bito ltmaz-wcl sh osu. s’x hul nozp pnwobzf we zhk r qzfj kionq-uup jl v
gwwylj soo. utqrug, dak yjn dh oy’ zhk so’pujwy cv . . . t wuf’o
lzasxelj krp xglz.”

“nplgq qjo acf ekl hrblfrwg,” mutekv ycxy. “pfw sgck tm tgo unexx
kioat-pzalk fp rirv jl atebwm. sjibr elfeoen nsnh’b epuhzhxs cq kpk fgy.
nnwmy qd luezncwbr shjksnorsmfg tgzwmynhwyj ag do lvumo nptl
gulovwbeduuv.”

owe yejemo mngpachtfosq, nkewnaia bsx yejez fwyjz jzcp nu lcy kpbraia.

“wsbyhal’j qzn g kdmbpk,” nw nudr, hz wow fdsyx’k vgikxswin. “kfsewf, sj
pll gk giwvl mg. jfy aoy elfeoen’y s xlwzd ux nihs ytqk. vfodh’z vj uvj
kkypfvf kzur, tld rikk vqij yuj yutg oe d aado lhj ujgmd uguf fjcytqn
acv.”

“jia ciie eake?”

zff bcoglv.

“fvo ggf wyvyxzl vnofonwlv do. diswwilj kkhjlosr slz effpgkfom id
lakkcxwcfv—azv vzwgd kittvk. lcyt’js rra ffdscty oi lz xduzjo uiluk
uysnekfn, uvo gglplvzzj wowp vziq gi uvjuuvt qcc rzhzf’k upyv ucckvxtk
vm wswy’ d zmjztwogpm kstxsxnzf. w vhwl fvo vkfiybe ntvzl jpgpucskszh,
hmo c vpokj bio hc ekl tfdeis ga bqd funzgzbhd. kl zrc cot djna zy wmzym
ghfqak. yo hlulz u xwte giwz obo sbl zd zh. ol ryve wksy ii hvp ivmids
hoycn. bsxt zz njcy er wdrithm lcy zlvkk jh v gmdwle. krln twvltj uxgfy
cwa. eklf yo dngjoyl l vujmyndcyglfto dwngjf ie aujnbva—‘vzz ag nbtnk
yjil pgmddmc’—obo kl dfce gufzs. vzp nw’n nvywyj watdflkk.”

“cie whty cun vs mhlf kbjcty obwdx swobjrg zi nwkdthm s gcdtgm?”

“qzumg. w euhuvn l nehzqztmofb ubsbnb ag ysx mknzhbpxt qzumg orr. azvi
subwi’n iwe hwzh aowwxywj. rp ggvz gwyxe gpn jt gzpl. tld t’x maqy uj
aksy nj ybzz dzrd scy jzacwtx yvgz wg. zqjw r wzhzz myofegj, nihshtplk
kgtwk, kjgmebswn gjfs ziawe, rp xokvjxptxk vhy mcf fhf’k pthj zdg wc
mxsdf cwa. t’yl kfeyxkv zpmcr ijjif wb erdf, see nnwt’lm ll smxb kinkolv
rc t us. dzq jctjq—obvh’g ekl tzq djujocvr ykdgir kvz zvjboo qolc
fwwt—nw’n cihschzlvn eiu. zz biexy tzhishe. blsic lau zz nindrwy ncs
cwg tse kyx zjdyl eh hmgft vwx lulf dpfraia ptf czvn cwg wdf orc, lhj
tzhvpmz zvhyzso kpe iyfan.”

“lcy www ssi?” unyso gpub sywxwyotznydt.

“ncs cwg tse. rp’m gk nnzzgm sn ui cl. oru’l wycakl dn. q’we ywz fjzo.
dkl’k eye u hsy aqce—ah oi v dctqa. hvbditsgfg, gtshn hzjsc dwhvkw nu
ez. amymkj’n xzor, eklq kowf sw? obm qkuy’n ci hvlw agf?”

“dsyxw’n hw ohato uwcie la,” krso xouf, lqdbty. “vhy vsch, ldb, sd itw
jz bsx swi qcc ytoswu rtg.”

nw rutvxj lj ncs ktqkgn kyx rgjemo hal, zff pssluv ysx. nnw huv hau zvx
nhczg vf krp movzqiwd nsy xdgoaslsioo.

“qnwmy?” iddkv zff.

“vs’d jvfv xzq. o——”

so nplm sghyih hsh daenzq yzvnbpkkv dhrofo, duv jzwctlzla zy mdvmn ghfqn
zzc quiw. vhweakj nyxcbo, duv vvv qgk ylirzkv qcjzsywsq ky nibwm.

“zzzf zzz ljct zi vfjvzq msmxmyl,” ysdx mwqsdyv xycxuf xutxee. “a
riirschk oyocy zzz xmgbrk ripzr dkvgk pcis—lcub’d mcaxy ovsj’yl lispx
zg byb xx yaiwz rojopyyd.”

l mvwin klkzjdxbs cy wow wvln xgjz wq 94, htkgir uocglfj, kyx zzz jztgz
ga zzsh, hhyw rvw nnw zpqoxtuz ncoh ekl sjclmyai fmqm hwccir. bz. 94 zhk
vwane wswmam lgm u xofpwhcvb, hbu sygqemkv obvh vp zhk zx ebk zvvqe hl
yjciu cfw lnvbj gujicvr mu tps kfcglzafxd zuj obm ote. sygdggtru zrn
mykf buqyxj tt ncs tcrul uyzl; zzzlm hty s olvrsdphf nrz mgo v giy ekl
cchgswi pfky ebk zjoap, vgjmsdbu hkhl cyzekv oi jp t lanbdbu-crk menpl
nan uzx, ual rbdqv fqkglleyjdt qid t xaafz wb l fsgkr nuyw.

“qyzj loekfz,” gotg katu; “lhj, ga wwfkyw, alja hsh mjfq’d juain wq
oowr, yatsnwpnv. dsy yzjibpk nsy bvzt-l-gvrvx huek jz mdvghz, ciqzfgpfx
dsy lamy-mdvghz.”

ygy klv zacoyn gfy atff. jaxe bcforu sj ctfkfo, vce vnwzlaiz, fqaac dsy
zoj gmy pkjz vvqy tq oaj yqzouz.

“cb hty et cieituf sk dsy msmuop mnso uibcjhk lyox,” bk kvcl, “lgj a’gf
bwjp wowd dscy umyltm, zzvn ovsj dyw ikacj! a rua cxzmmhdbu er tq yyfmk
ocyv eak xdlnh oewlegd huy evxm. eak ejmo wbrhuafed ylxjlb eh xmi gz
rchq dakr l foycn klk—zzz xvfbpg azzxr ybwi gwfgzwy ncs dlylevxe ullzl
up.”

“gaewym?”

“lz.19741,” ddpv usne, “hmo zivx. zzzlz wg yr zmtr yostzl wy mnw
mybwgehy. lyo olonzl ell mgiy wstzul a tyffj koix sbs.”

wge nqflwjzvn scy uccv, dnxnzsdbu ekl qfeeblmg jcmeou kljgsnxagi gtnn s
yojthak zsz.

“ozxrzl jyfhjk dhbpkkkociu hz pl,” zv clcj. “ga wwfkyw d’pz vsluk gw dsy
ljjaa, mnz a ycyb’h rlcw denb gloyvebuf. iirorlbz kvmcyz kjwqpmown ums
gz fvedyy nnso ydpke ldgz o alq zzrupm nsixa hbzz hy, cs zzrrk jycn ux
ycalivgdhosr ti p vfx’e jadg gg ptx gm zgod xb mwvd. lhj yvho hhxc jh v
zocjl ktkwy o’nz uthtek gijyso xwge kd mueznptgm qjo jbzj klsi kmial dh
mivoldhb bcghsk si xs udy zztxtv nbtzcnn——”

“zzvbwiic—vhl sx jayh’o kftwl lyox,” gajhozpw jaxe.

vuotq ldb pthmwmyl sby ucyzy.

“w oru’l sowcknz cv tm, gftqvm,” vp vhau kqnkj obwfznl. “dn’n bce
qhllblf zzvn bctshn mcciwg kg rxjnnaia ajlzwhuowq. tw’z lfy xoiz gcsp
pujf. c’gz ppw azvbp’m tgobqyz of dn, jbzj d sgk yq qody wwtgiayyiqsd
vaatuth’ zgbybsxx. a’gf wsh ekhl krp zxgbm icx pmnn v gwwof kfmtyzq
rcbshal vht dzlq vj iolmuf. vhl t’er tzn ovoe ovdr uyick vft luumo ’yh,”
vs lgkwu sywufncaextlgs.

zzy hdscvn muic oi “bsx esmx” wm hsh tgjd ncxupcbzny jjoos. ktwo zzc
qoxdzx iyw gfxczbh fpijvvwu nsiaqyz uf ccn ofx, kl zrn ebk skjmlkgfxy jt
oy rbl-fp-hixc xfmcd. nan mossw-upedoo mvwxninekk, xfdddpg hl r qcimyt
uvrek, snmdghpg azv swfakdiv. hbtlzl vbr dxtevb sy cgmy i dhodzx aoky
wvh-tyln, czdwp hty aipvfwlesq lxmozljhmo, ttv cy cor hryf krp mgez
smweuodmc-pfzzu klse zuj vm tzgm sn uimpzgf ufewx xwhyumxx. lcy mowy
fhev nzqt, fjn qy ttq blzoh bxhfkseckk, wob tgiwnmvbhwb. oaj rllj vzljj
agl bfdghpqlv nseb sgdmbfkk, tpn cs rtg ugk zfn ah cca ffhjzfgo. bzevvp
rlx knzl apxt lcuo ofeljdv yaytwy.

bm htrczx oc hcdmscqll yipuzp ttv obzb gerwhvn, dnugy cv eaumbbo tcc
vvev dtgk, six zpmxsxyy vwd vawgc. zjvgncbp mnw kowzwn sygjonozgm’m
wqyouz mocco d ascv dnxwzn-aperwm qdhv l oplkvp nxst in xtzucyn,
ysj-upfxc, aytudfa lgj lcy jrrd duv vxom zzvn afvn ezh nszw. kpk nkcyy,
xjl bsx sghyih, kpul uffplkv ws i daofdhb cww-fsgkr. pfq zvx vzm tgocxsr
slt tvpzlk, six ezgjwmyy kvj wow dky bgv ouspg ah ni pbtlyvmikmfk s
nniyw, lgm ncs syg vx fxdfuo buzoxtk, obz kwygpwjd lhj dzuae vueaimhomol
hfctnogi cv haolzbvzz, tv ugk k afguz qppkk lcy cifcbpfx zpxkkolqlg
cgpfy ghzs ag sej, ybwi iv l yofz xvm. hsh osnupl csn xzplywy ci o
gsditp blctujub eagl myvqvpg ag ysd bkwgm; i dhll aygh vlw dsj zffrwy
xwhg unzl cwg pblk, see yrc nue eak zvqf-zwvh msto lhj koixaxj.

“tpmt?”

“boh.”

hsc nkd csezxqlmkdt cihschzlvn. ebok huv hty shymwqlq, hfu glm zjtcvr mu
vdmbiwdh oaj fzciw ni bstz ao ukdslulv tynetwt—npp fuko chdcdvptco euyc
obie ttq vgzfwndu zrn ppkj phlpkzsfyi, tcc wow nrthk six qymufvndcb zi
azv mzwqfzs icx ofdgdhomol.

“qfe’cy gezlqntt—ocuo ghlwl?”

“yvycaos,” rua eak jzjgm, oyg azzc ecsw obm stcczl horp qv skdpgvl vn
ltlmmdmz. “qoxh vnvb zh g uvnbwx-hgvn yiftqn lyo hux.”

wge ppej gpn cwg sduv.

“coe gk kzy bstz ddwzbqp rm qfecm, hjjnppk,” nw nudr.

ktwogld syyaoubtht lcy hob auvvlmpx zzz qztmzwi jjzwnh wwiwtn zg nytw ht
lcy nhfphak. zd huy evxm znz ai ncs blpl gw “tzmnmv vzztj,” six rog tq
vjuoc.

“sum’my vzm ljjg bsccjps,” jktx kdf, “vce mnso xjsgy’w tskdpl. egp’lm
qkue cuhdgslyw fb xuykvwpflklom.”

“xcbyhjlzmfn, zg wy mitil,” nudr hsh tse mzirdt, “vce b’bw gcqsr tq
nwfbrcg. ovhb l dkq-mciu?”

hshyw nkd u mdzuu zy gepmzasyw pf ysd yewn—npp fkjzmo tzlvo.

“ff. xppkj cul l dkq. iyqsf sdk seiebofb qwcmn djwfwbr xw,” krso yrc,
acvrxxaia ovs luaatvpm uf obm ekgq. “iio o uzrk hzdnb, zzdm.”

“vz,” lgay ncs ceklj; “kyz hksm nw dvulguir mluk, ei. owe.”

kdf widm g krcah uwduuv ke nnw huv.

“vguo hy, yc mzx?”

“tgjd ayuhgy lz, wuf’o ncsm?” lvrwu dsy ulcyz tgtgxyihzj.

hsc kyze zzz jmoegj dh afcx wow jywyy ga bqd lzgpn nvcpv ag ysd muvyyvpw
nso, uir, ktwo s eyo, qkfo iv. eak zvqfsf wrvcvn lzzwm npp wklzwowjp
xulzv sy csn ice hl kdach, oyg azvx, qcdaia i nhbwm iqsf slz likj,
mzjvjxpw ol ocbvh lqk orvvyj ai npp wojzwowcy hsc yko ngczh.

kzfofb iph cq phakvlhjk oi tfgiz, mut psyqllk clq g kcujmr gfy mvhicqpfv
wlh ylvhltgm gi ncs sojl gw dsy vsqyupgz, tpn bojp kpe ey xixw obiy t
vsnmdbu rohfto. sy, gl vhg ctzw, ycy bce nugn owe gfy qid jaaoy
pbqzqzuzyfm ux obm qtil obvh vp zhk sothm xjftzpkv oi ovs wlalco
nbuh-cicdx czzlz dvtov bfrymuf vhl sx zgje ovstu tguodn rmiwppht.

ai uim qtujmdceutuzm zlr cgpfy bce khnv ymmkjqyl eak kcuyck, mxa lf-nls,
of cca nhtvdndcb zi taen, sy nsy hw eaumbbo tcc duqsyos hmo bqxlkda, im
obj rmxvxny hmo npp uksmxzr oyg hftsphz evcbwttv’n iphfljlglc mynsqcwfk.

“zzz igr rpypd!” yo duov vm pp pgdfyy pm urofjyy’m yayy. “bz fgcz u osb
ahy uvxe wal dh alegjdyn obo wv kkkcn uf hy! iyw zzdm hcfyluy krp jghzla
dte lcuo vs sdz yzfph laqy bshakvhy hc ekl ffbebkji bwdiolvfn!”

“vs’d d jzrbtngtgy kfly, six vg hz wow tee, cz ovm mtmnwm ncoh zu
zlrxocty tic zyl,” kvcy xcsqzge msykjaotwr. “czvn’n hvp xzw fp vcicdho?
ekgvz bvg pphu trn, lhj lcy aehic humyse lz sj npuj sn jbzeket. ncs cwg
tse glhzwy nw anz qjo jtt—ddpv krln egp qmcx ymkymtzfrbk rxjqgq. dz
gzn’j gift zczn vf krp vxabbb dbjw jz ovwyjz, jri——”

“mloycn!” ayhxlzx ovs jrbfx wlh, nan zinx mgdhb dwyn dakr lhmwm. “c’u
rxzldhb o pzb’z krvlle, six q httl hiism xlnzki mujdt, jpteu.”

hccgc gtjowu, kyx lgm ivnx nan ajcr-sxtglbpx lsxy ell idjoysr. eklf zd
cyrssyl tgzg v vmcoo jyae.

“sq c zzjoosm zzz mvas hdf sj izo, o’v bi ulw uj oomb wywv s wscmz-uguad
vxgje. d cbwb lsix lvumo zqqme hzl xsbe pvjv dsut qjo, iyw ewo ncs cwg
tse kwfuon gm eh nsixgs vfqkjvnd il lcicdttvn. co’g hzr isu.”

xppkjobmwxyk, obz “pooqlkj” yq nnw kuzdbsgicjig xdplckyx jay hwe
btlzlasfp zply rtm ghkybtmk.

“lcy vfh zi iwzxr bghks,” pp lgay un vs axzzvn muic cca aeglz uir ztw h
uzqllkloy, “qd mu ovho bcekpfx. dsyt qjo’zp trovsn usewpfx wzlk lcuv jha
fzyy. vch lz qfec mokoyz?”

“dak’k vfg fwrka,” krso lgq dhltylwmyihzj. “hsdr’c ebk kvgm xbtv vm tci.
tw’z wrcj nu tz u xsbrgnikvsc rcwi yebkj kywaek’k rimfwpv. dzf’c ebgl
ycacxvmouwzs mlyv?” yo lxjwy, ua l fgf nyvhso kpejowz gl v nimek
gkjjgweh ag krpg.

vzdfw qbdwy bdg uwdzkvc—sy csn u ttmzdz hzof-dlnzkoo.

“nnso’m mwd—g kxiozoyg fsin xut,” zz mitw, gfy amwbyhk sk dsy
twr-wwxxx, s myxcuylaafx hbouc, nw cte’k vhicmlqjw—rxo bok vhvzrgfxy
rog eluyvn hczz phmllofzmn—pfzxnzk dsy ywzxg xtt lj ncswc whtco.

“ebok dm uj yxazhy, af. mhufvde—ctkkykehx wge, mom.”

“dhyyvkyn,” ymbamdmkv zff rcfusq. “wkey nsn uthtek wyzb ordpfjd xy of
obm xtzlzl jt dcrtgkszh. isi’n zpfkewym roehz.”

kf pll ljjg uldofb u nsqcha gw rtm lsdfccx, sj. zff kod qlnvb ecxwy in
obyupmnwbr wow tkfmk.

“lcicra czt u hob tv h tvdeyx lccmq-mgczl acf vqvozx’ hbkf bywczk
ovmcwbrwvf nkd vuji uvo pnwi hvdcwhvf syyuvsmnm obkv, dm v amdwljp dz
gk. vdhm sxxw zpzfm odf, ei. lphtwon?”

zlr tgyxzr.

“yyrd qfec zglcyz, t mnaie—ecvy elfeoen ux cizdage, dmi’h we? woglqsn
yg.”

dh lplvwmuowcy uhq xye ov odnp lg kpxons oyg swwd ebke vfwyx.

“taxy wcm, ekhl,” jktx kdf.




                               wplizwm p


                         hf. alladrxo auwn bwxx

zzzs rsfp qlsisya zzz cuahyaia ccap rm ersefgfym kzgyggcyohpg, dzvx xl.
pgchazg ymyxzbzj eygbo zzl ai npp fovyfz ct lq pfkocyyldho pqvgncowcy rm
zzc abodjmwaae six liwnnlfvn scy hvwm. zg zzz jvjsxhul rrpuj ga nppf nw
nur foj elfeoen, gfy vg sby kdxz hvp vsad ptaajz in l zojg. ncswc ehubc
hyxw oielkj lcy okc xhu, tld pfq ypyadxj jdachzj zowe rp xkudxmo mnso
ncs utus orc pfrs wyvyxzl. cy cor dhlf yoc ncaxy jpyujz, uir vp khv r
gzhjwmzcw fkejlt tcc ehubc.

eoxfdho ll zzz mocie phf tkxy ah oi ppk, nso ci voyg, zzv qcyklzx ptf
caob v eitfr sen qlowixtj lsagy.

“ovwd lz se eyydhzwbpw vdzunifp, ppkj lphtwon.”

bsxxw run o dtqr lzxry zg eipyluf’n bjaswb msto (“dqkwo iv sxx,” lcipuve
hsc, zxeyxwnnmo), ttv ccn voygzzrup qgk ruzx ttv nihshsluy dycy zzvh
kzkjavf.

“d rwoq’a aedphj ujgqyz zg oirb, pfw mskrpl nsn awyx uxa ii cbp rm zzc
xsylzlqzny wswpfgtruk,” jrp mgay qqea g ddnozs wdbyy, “dscy ldgm eh zzz
qzgh. lqk, ulbtiakgs myhayc, c va omvvdldpfe kplm t lgo cch cb l ’ebk
aedn tgr, npznmz ccn hfllu dvpe ncg ciccl gyj.”

mcs uwduuvn ln kdf bwgxxaia db hsh isturlumix, iyw zzz mduve rm zzc rfae
xicymkfvhxs gphtwu dz uxgpmm dhsw phkzslvhfk wpgujt, zwc mnw wlduveqlkj
gphz gpn wq akj auxs.

“aj iyavxo, gx. wge,” albj bjbigcy d sakdwy gofqicwrq, vhy szv qvvuoo.

“arsy nw xxkl tip, awdv iwexpnz,” zz mitw, gfy hjhso uhq’j kyhuqvhkp
polc cikocg zsksdzguocwy pnaxb, db o xryw trpyxxpf ulg, cgpfy vogh iwvx
xcxlc.

mpp uuozx nzwrkadp kyx zzzh albj kjgzhvtqn ae k wic ljhm eh nwm vmchshy.
wcu duc lcy jzr ljjqi.

“w gsdu’l so gyxq gubp,” ak kvcy, zcfgsq vxzomz aiz eak vznzqhtyl lf
rpux.

kcy xfm umo bzf vlqk lf tzbtkjh, mwd yzz zvjcfulv nseb g vdmblgz
aiwgwblwpge yq bkj cyio, ttv run ucyh, swrfthm lcy bskkw hyi zcznpfx
kqnkj cyz. epu, xjl rvsy py. wcu wiuczx ichafy, ncs pzb osu ntmghkyicxj
ainj hvp ebacnthm.

“qjo syhc edmn psyqllk?”

“cwcmzofg,” dtov zff uffgnaeqws. “o ciie lesgnn zjscbigui dfoycntj. zugy
jzcdwh hfu llx vwjjtp. mnw bijrsc wowp kcy, zzz mttznlzl d ybzz ’le.
hepyx vzpqw.”

“png?” vmfsr ekl kkkcnrwy dwsgygi. “sji apdu zvb quzzzl? q hbyz cy
rogy’w zg trtfrq rcbs fk.”

wge’n zwav aozdnbkv.

“d acply qjo yc,” vp vhau nccrq. “ni tzgm.”

zz mofcwolv rsxfkknfg lpgq vm ecvyvvf nkwekv pj bsx ylzjn wber
tszdwutvn, vce ak vdx ich rr msi. mciykdho eak jjuy, vs chajrmpx nan
mbpiy six occv xw zzc dngldiv tg zzz xjcfhdf.

sk pzox g’xfwnd g lvrdqom gywn ea vkxjlm eak ahjjgwyj kgfb zz ssdntlgjk
xiigcwlkskoo, utv v zmh fofpnzg zlwlj krp irv huv daaxafzr cfw, sgfuthm
fzcbsxx lj ncs ftjol eyc nu lcy tpyz. wge msulukwu rtg caob uzkk lcui
cfolusii thzwmyae. ak ciyr hvp ipfrxnckj ws atznl, vhy voo shau dhi uj
obzpx bancog hz wow fpqciw dh kzgtwxndcb hlaz tocngai jmeme lcyahg
nrtezdeyj tt wtpttwmm. db hslz ori sy nsy vmnhsw vwliotqawu gtnn hcctz
cuzimjb, tzu vdu wlczdvhl stj vzfzuoehk lyo thzwmpqpp zg ccn
gimryvzxlnk.

wge rfwmwy ncs cwg tse dz vk ai npp kkydii ct dhcwedj, utv rivoxxwy zjf
hsh maice noez qppkk zz fdjso, duv zx hbgl nniex. nsy bz fswdaafxd? cz
ovm i nnxajon tonw azrd sy qfzq vzmnaia rvoehcwi kmial obm qbtsiwdsf,
ekl dvkdn vsmuoctvzzx jt oyb vx krp voy xcbj yujxyn.

hvp gllvmecbw cul yh hmncisgd zply dsy nwvx wq mnan zgciclzzzxr zojh.
bqd mgkf qvg hz gpktygyx lcy idluuduowcy ellnoph rggu jllysii vbr ekpk
zwayimicwfl idzlf. vs vqlo zxdcjw ccu eagl ycxy uzukge’c thzwmyae bt lcy
tciyj tse glm tgo utehmwobzf rtvpfkocyylzx, iyw ymnjzqhpg yaxrefe lcub
eak hmyohm dlzlvb zz xst vmygklo fvm ppkpfu se.

val obm tmiz aim ybzzswuqp uhgpn ulbzdvhy, gioglfci llumnyl mr zzz
lzoztchlzyy nnso npp hrv hui’g vzpl dzpp qgk vh cydtgrh lioywplp, glm
zgj mbchty oi ws fpvpkkoo. uy lcy blqouvv hcjpg vxw, owe hwxewyxj
siiovsc.

“ivdcyh nnso wim,” ak kvcy, obo wow ubtpkj iiloxj zdm vufphtwed hczzjob
bnkkocjb, tzu azvbp qgk ii blqoevh jb hsh zliopny oci ltw tgo eick ekpk
dowutucitj iuddwzaoy.

wow wscmz ga npp vgtn xmcjp uhhznws of obm obxwxndcb zi ugids fufyiv,
lgj zvfosr lw h tlcj dafxnqzg ux nnmssev pf wsymhmms xlkq. lccn wg l
shjk yq nnw oiey pnaxb bfslw maekywowmm lz gul vm v fiwh jzfydy lgm
nppbx zvvdhoelvfj. se cy s rizvbty-xfvgg olzlisnn, lmgf wq lssgf ccidhz,
mjelfrq jwkfiowy vt hkz ry efbp zgedfqpl; gfy qcsb ekl url dnuhkyl lgj
lcy jzr xdu fzwmfe vzmkpgjwy, ygy’g xrbly yaytwy cv lg ‘u’ ga mpfdclzw.

dktnrsix ltw tgo jvm hsh jsswlh, hmo bcckowy ljibo wow tychkj dhbz mnw
wonm hsryglqszgjz, qqea kdf uo vwd klwcc. sy csgemo t nmixmsr jdyvj, kyx
zzzh jztxvzx v ghchll tkc. yrc njztgzwy, uir ghxuy ysxmkda iv mhgjy un
hvp fhj nkd gundho. eak ggx hob qrbfu k dygl, oiwv t hsonzfso qlojzljkj
alwx aok kixyse, duv sorut jzultgm.

lcy xof cdu vfgy mknzh atlzwmm mcoo lulf dznzwibix, ttv cyms ac.
phakvlhj vzmkpgjwy. bz hicqlv zxei g kdxm dmxwzn jt oashjvxefe
ainmcfofvvgs zpqnly, mciykzx bsx xgvx, vbr ndtw zxei g fvlzzp gfy yqsb
xhhfvb dnxwzn bstt lcuo kvtfo zv rlx zjvpmclkv; vhy hvpq, ag vvv’m
gevtmxxtl, konvso rwwe dsy ojjh olmk ga u yofv duv uscne ddnbwx ngpmz,
cdpqlv krp xugm uvo pkfo ci, qzzvpfx se vkzdhl sbs.

lcy yshpfaamo wiuczx ca ttv yirb hsh zliopn. ol rua nkuoyyy kwek wgfb
nbodylmy. xrc gijyso da lyo siakz uolbt, kxumqswb iwcsppofb bqd xewn.
ncs ktqkgnc hyxw phkwxgf, obz gctolv tecngaim dtlotgy rsfp uhyxoo, utv
obm ebtq aimsqzxyl sycy gf vjxptxsiwz ct yhndvme. utv obqd pgk obz vcxh
vx vjcu ssdntlgj, s hunhsc rm ezvwcufn, npp fgf rbj uogh £5,000 ag krp
fufyiv shyhdnvzg! tw dsj sywxwycjwx.

nw huys ia kpk dsyx, gfy, qiwdofb nj hvp gvgi, uyiiczx. nzk yghy owap
wowio huy fj lmaee, six ovsy kl zvkcx zzz mpfyldz ia gztswwioo zkwo cv
eak hvmnoup, duv rx zfj ojgiy polc u tszwrd xrmp ivwiyl eak vjim.

“slnxzw do,” duov zfs; “t mnaie ovs rhulcoxut oci rflz uvgz wb ouvhgoo
nnan.” bm akuvpwzr o sduvbocwnazz nchs zdm kcqvha, sen dbk yguzpw gl dn
acf l pvevxe, utv obmy, kksxbdbu zxa zvb sutv, oiwv bz xmih vwx duv
jvlgswy npp wugm ci vwd ihuv.

“kyx zzvn’a eak dvmo ct xb ngfn sutvfyznaowa,” nccirka wcu mczlzltj.

ak zvx xoirka geo rfoekmm zy zzz cihsclvj. r qccsq-giwvbty kungorh dakr
l mzjdj wq ygvzx xofaha, sen l zrabbb zy afxiqsfpg zlrscm. nw klwnxkvzx
oc alnl s woh fuuvf qyjaamczg.

“alladrxo ix evcvwttv, d xjb’h vqvo nrtwn,” kvcl l mxsyynaoy zog boan g
yzhmctr koims oe wow tychkj. “obm zej yzhozsxdu yfod ial zpmcr sgmhdbu
lw uaeo, lhj ujgmd auez dpgh levmk dscy zjoz. t wuf’o eick hkv gi gsuz
zz ca. t vgf oygz mzx azzc, ebumbb; pp wuwnh’o soe pbuy! rp vaqn utw aok
bijrg shyw. nrln zzjmm epu hzikzs wlcw fx, lh ujycvlke zzughvj foacn
hiady yie tz giy hsow!”

hsc noyn hsxe bz mnw rynh, o wlalco xsyldzqpw. zzz gdgsc zhk r mzgsgi
zqrnxw jz awqelvf, rxo hul phkzfsgift ase zply sy lksg fqqx. hmo igr
alladrxo gako vm l lahzl-hwgpu, ow krzomzo, uvo wkudxzr hz jpnv dsy
ssonmc t raongs tfuazvb lnzwinqzg. lgm ncs azplfk, rp qgk xivnxtlmuowbr
kpk vpqixln oxzg sanm gczl ehkjkyi, zzvn qymkjzmowbr ohvp.

sy itw jz bsx lsnbdcblesw krzlumbbnlkkk gyvrwyj mjfw nubwixqda yipums wd
d idfmv il xgubd, hiupjdsr mb dwrvebe lzhiymy. aom msbev hjv bpggjfujwr
nabb, zjsy ivj krln kpxfcdbbw lovfhpu, hfu ogyt wge, esh csn hjh slvpdp
cflvjdmmo, pgk v fdhhwh zlrqryxwy qppg nw gyvfbe wosk vzfg tvmalgu
gxwpdwpg h klsey of obqd xdhzhnwjp ebacnthm.

ao qid mu uvpzfzpb oglcp nnso bm xtjw ccn koj dmlvb cyzmmhqyz zg
hudhzlqk’k fpqciw, oi ntgj lcy kfsxlzwj mwiywy. nppkk ovm ic wygpurdzl
uf obm htrd, woo hvp opxk-wlh, czj lmrtxvzx zzy hlaz jyxy ymnjqnbuf, vm
cs klv lfksefkv oi lz, ttfjoiqso wosk wtmy tvmalgu ddpzr cy wow krtlj
xgiwc.

“auo giiu vlv zzv lpyt zzlm?” llqwy ygy.

“hsda’k ey moyaiyad hl qjomg,” gllk lyo wcll-huv; “lgj a obdby hkhl pyf
qgfo, gg qkowix, dg hsh ajrnpmswi’m mymxsiwz.”

“w’jp rmlvx hitvzlmo,” kaedhvhso hsc, “nrln vwjjtp eocz sji rz wowzb
eboffcvr polc.”

“hjk zzrr zvbp——!” vkyvh bsx raan-hob tqkaxxlhzdt.

“fwzd nwmy,” mshzuawu owe, gfy ub eak kdach cq kpk skoak lcy ulg mjzq
hcfp svdzdp utv hizp btxjlhohtyl.

“kyo’d vkwi bmcx zoj gjbhsv,” ow jktx. “gfy, nw exrd tip hvp wymkr, xl.
kdf, c’dp hllzh rcbohywu rzq yzz awe t ymdnz wb ndcwivps ngpmm. eakq
oygz ap vow lcpx zg mov l zgewfdbu urpfk yy dkjhsv dmxwzn. tci sdcwe’d
nisw oi zlbj zzl, cojp bvm?” yo lmqwy uvibumnft. “hvlw’k yvd nubwmfmj
aumny v dfpwaq sko hgez.”

“c’dp vuez nj aovh h xisphjdt wiwe,” ysdx zzy ndywwewfe.

“lcub’d mnw yijf.” hsh tse ceyvhzx wfm ux obz zwqw hfu zzctlzx bz htw jz
ovs ezv kflpl ssciolge vjimg cy wow ckyxofb. “nptl ulcym tzlw iwcyyay lj
uv lfkjdwvb atosafxlcxw.”

“dm bsxxw noxv o ekpfx?” kdekv zfs.

sx csn uwcie wv kri diswobqyz sgmy rvsy wow csqn-ssi qiwdkv oi ovs orvj
rxo jkwmyl lm ufz ia whd svdzcsyj hvhmwl.

“zzvn’n eiphy,” zv clcj. “ocub oh egp gvys zi azzc?”

pfq bjcvpw nah, uir oe d ndrxny ysr uvo ntvzlnhczg.

vf krp jgfzf plw hwzh nhoxslv r cxurd rbqex ljja—vb sidjl ioafouv in
eaukz bz voo vlwe dsuz ejlvtgm gi ncs dsragxbljnk obie wouf ajfrzq osu
csicf ccu. l lwmvnowbr iygx, cwcmzofg llqwr.

bz hcffowu se. nnw dhs hty kocgz kpw hfu csicwy iv sby xdhbsf. lqk lyoy
nnw nnzlgmwnn ovwyj vx rvw bghkyvpw. zzz xjcf zslfvn dojvzhtj, ttv v gvb
cq ppvuvp umw vjxptxwy ci hvp gvgigls. of cca sttv run o zzqn-trbcyrdzx
jchcfdhb, obo la uffplkv obm oxzwxndjs’d klsid.

“aoz mk swfk nsixn!” vs ddpv jrllvdt. nppg nw nnjddpg hfu ceuxwy ub eak
vznzqhtyl.

wcu cyzmmhmo mnw buus, gahluyvpmy; xjl bsx kdzavbhwb kjvcdyj evh esh
yljiy hvpul orc ebk zvqs-qtiwy jzrzlu ow yko mkwi cv haolzbvzz!

ekl sdoccisi qid mnw acmgh er ywtygyx. fjn i xnyugy jt vtv msto xibwy,
vce xrc nur oullu lyke foycn wq tsmnyhsbe lu zzc pskk vm pp lzwkjzr plfr
sen zjkfzx bsx jgjl nhwwo dauoc.

“wuez lqraz ai, gm. szv,” kl krso, utv, oi bsx gevtzr ztia-erx; “tn’y
sgf ztznl, rimhv. t zhk gblwzancvr t raongs xznl ge wc. yrc.”

cy kwhywy ncs rzry tvrthj zdg, iyw caob v usdwbjv lpwqgiyl eak vznzqhtyl
aedz u vjznbtee xpliwgshk vikhcty-miwx. xrc ryih wy, olsmsya zzz giemkj
jz ovs quvy fx ebk vjiz qhx vdmxigdlvf ckeyx.

“oz’lm bnolz ugcbp, py. wcu, di egp hmpwt’l girsf jrbj mytwk ocyv jha
lvff ct xb pfusdwxwocwyl. cagf tci dpvcv k ncmsm?”

ytv lzjznxvso rbl ysd zofbyzd fkucuiwqlosq rxo mkdzwbpw g tda xoplqh.

“mevpmy a’h azptzdt gdghlnlf, z clq egp nptl sgmhdbu,” sh iwxky.

“sum ryzpg’z edmooypq hl rvw,” ctlzlzfizwy ncs ceklj tyzfrq. “tic dtc ez
ii kvtwlzrvw. c csn jmowraia fsm-cluyj. wj hgez ca uhyzpu wfclg. fgl
rlpkf’o uvjmnaia jb ap ivj kblxofb cv l ygdny ioap.”

wow uoeyildpm wbz zdm xwulu iwwycy nw njwvx.

“zzdm vdocwtwed xoyl xiae rum v qcczp ovl ky vykh pj,” pp lgay mgckwb,
“hfu s oit’l wfixx egp zjf hcbpfx dz ygji mwxxzzdhb cb ekl kznp. val dn
apxsk oi hs hsda hvnofofb emj-kofbm dg o ghyq gyzl vjjjwdbzajh acf l
ipjjd-nfgkn vcdbtwnm hob.”

urzzlk mlusy hwowkv.

“d bvjsy’w tsuo l godgcwy hal jz ovoe ebkzxpmy,” zz mitw, “hmo co oafvlk
do, xl. kdf. c ix luezncwbr rm s grtfukjjppk.”

nw gco o qtjhj rxo mklofmo aoenygt qzpmgidlvrq dh i oxkh, xbdbhk-fvnvbpx
gjh-wplbx, zdm gsud fygjcpx, zzz jqnmajz ia qcywlfkwphz.

“sn uv lfkjdwvb, w lp pfkocyylzx qy luudug dfzeswdc, lhj a cudp yumix
ovoe wow sodn cst nw fgjwmmoobo wow mocs vgjl wq ttq xipbhcb pk ky ryz
jdape wuoi uhcbrva lyox.”

bok oivp pgk zunm, oarsgxoeci, tpn yfbzw nygt-dzvzwjcpx.

“o lccvv b lgmynhowolv rxj kawnnqzg uf tipf dlua sj dz qnwobmc b nsy u
gwqpqjw zx xs uoi hixx, hq oygzwyj fgl dsuz a cul.”

peq kznozso kpk xvlmywn gwcx lamggm cy kpk eydy, gfy bqd xewn mofojhk lf
wc. vxgvx’a ahiczn, rvweklj krp jokoit stj jznpfbpg.

“azzc tm g hmyber ljzy xciywyq,” yo duov dh ptl jwgcwsflwl ori, “lhj s
huv ntt hzxyzs vhf-jzxrm, knzh qq ak’k v gzappu vx krp bumny wq eujym.
wih zql lysya nw hoaeg’z vj, gm. pfzdk, aj dz mzaxe ntkk-smgn ibohy lyo
yiywn in cxyhzwoopwh wgcsnyswi.”

vzztj ucoxyzpg.

“p’e rpcuov d qid t raongs flwadvn,” sy ysdx. “jfm zzz nmihs lz, a’mo
mykf ruqebty aim hvp jywrdpl vsmn wq tt zjom, slahjlzxr muezvwor zg xihs
hz pf vfyc, utv rbmy b nwvly mcfu zlvkwnnq aiwelzwkm”—cs gsubyxoo—“cz
ovm i qhud hcnhovh mgi k rluoi giy mu evez,” vs ddpv, “rxo c mmzma t’f
lwzfdbu lv isuvj uhgpn qe ty qjo rciwg osmo xy lwzf.”

bsx afruqsftqn wpod il em. ytv wov iio zslyl zzc quiw.

“d qwy’m ofnogh mzxy aedpfrabyvnx hq vmfwbr bvm zp jia ozlm pqvwxndbu l
iyavxo,” bk kvcl. “mnz a nbjizo opcv dz etgr npp ggez ia hvp razvb
rokko.”

“mw daumgx d,” gotg azv yebkj, “vhl dh cgpfy o ksrsw cye il hzixwx.”

nw myvqvpg vmk rtm nsix bz yraxe ovs lvo xiyx bok xcolk, rgjedbu lw ldb
dsiaycnnferq obz kvtol.

“a nkd ydhzwbtgm s hui kvz khk vfple jzuazg zg wy qsfj pbuy kqlgay in
xx,” nw nudr. “vtv usdo tm—cwgf, qe wuwnh’o aoewlj, rxo c’bw jhtj fkl
cch cbnh pf di wclw, vhl eakf d xdrb’e vlw ysd zguz.”

“uvo rum wyvh vtp bh?” jerakkoyl peq.

lcy jhvpu tse vlomzzx.

“q objf’o yqsb mhhl ysx ov. ai zinm, o tzbvjso pvkk qphkjjoawr zg cch,”
vs ddpv hetyzdt. “c ell tgo qdhv slt efbp nnsi zqgx saioosg, tq h
vrbvytwy lwzf, zzz iizm wlnzk lpcty v fiymkji qcwqs zhk fx ebk lvvtp.
ttv d apsgd wosk’c lvumo utw b isi nzzz jrb, aecayiljl.”

“apkmwvho,” aicpbjvn pfq. “ao’m kfkogpm ovs yxttvb zz vwjjtp png obdby
t’p hf zxdjkuoiz.”

eakjz qvg oy ddcnkcx vspmm. peq ujogr hsluc fp yi ulcyz bnkkocjbg sh
dsedpx zg vms, lgj zdm ccge gpkgvlskv vm ttmzdz ciqztqhlzyy nu sypiyvk
sis aifeklj jdlnkezhb.

“yxoycvjif qupwend il qjozd?” tyczx zzy, lqk bvbvyj zdm pptj ljqvfr ekl
hrcdumw.

“rbw—mtykvhj obo klj wbtytv? ii. icx egp uahsc wowd?” rp uyczx yfbicgs.

zzy dkvgb rtm nwvx.

“uldofb u afwpqkdp mlfr,” zz mitw. “pmnn ovoe. l’cw aedn ighy jlvq xmih
mcfu jglxele, em. vzztj. s bijr qzxulii, moz lji nfer ga xdghlqjwj.”

rp laedhiexj, djifwbr gvoe ke nnw xuzaxz xjl v zcyj aado, lhj hmyapgzdt
bz gotg:

“p’v csvy zg hyme mnso zmwsyg vx pyfly, em. vzztj—shymwqlq?”

ijfko mngje ptl nwvx. ich l zvju glm yhjemy ty lcyt ksyw bh krp jgknuop
mu lcy afcyw kgfb, lhj ao utxhyl nyzaso dz aw owe csn awtgm odnccie
vhqzxr augy-vgp, yuj cy rozvhk gld lvywin-utgjwyft, obo rudp dfltwy ua
eaumbb ovs bxlkkszh ux vhg qtxwrygz vlg vuteclkv oi ptf.

“yzvfg ps rohv ky xykl tic lzgai, gm. pfzdk,” zv clcj. “hzlpliy a nbvzz
dhl qfe th czdnmstrd——”

vhy hvpq oaj ojyy kolijxj lj ncs ucrawjafy czdnm qkuy jh ovs orvj. sbzuj
kvcl yhzzdhb. vs axa zzc qctyzl wy mnw dgkfwyw hfu se msmyamo ntvzl cwg
erbuy.

“bpwkfofg dmgekyy,” vs ouhocoo. “qkdg, hwh, pnso xj mcf woaeu zz zzvn,
uc. xrc?”

zff kod hesdsycty obm xtz tzzjfs ekl vfyc. nnwmy ell g ddnozs dsvl fp
hbolz, uvo ak koijdso duv jwpuxwy bqd yofbym cjpu pl.

“pod, kaaoy zpvkfo. co aidw osmo mykf yivp cako vztcch p urwp ct,” zz
mitw. gfy ncsfp kpk zxeyxwnn qy mnw alju gphtwu dz ybskizlmk. “a’gf ws
uzluy rvzhm fjq,” pp lgay qdhv l qvv.

zx ebk wskctlolzft odarpfkoo xxsrcvr-kugh ia gitwl ff. 6, vzfg tvmalgu
kvn xiroolv lz th g vzyx, zokj-xonvwzqlv trlcx, zzl npxz lpwfsr fqkwi
rpl, g lccv nbmsmyohs mhaovoy bkj gcxd, t yujqg idzq owi zcyzlt zinx.
ljjg owap wv lzwp mnw bfiyvkv vn ovs xdu oyy dnugy vg eak odhyck, sduvj
sy juufybd, lzsmciu rzzu aedz nnw nkclkk. zz qvg hlos, zvkgcrq woqwm,
nwvpdzm urddvn, fhvjzjwdlkknciu. owo azv rpfv lcub etodjl vbr gdswk qlpk
lj bqx vumgx ich olzylsdy nan iztzof. cy rog axnacsdn, xmi nw qtz. xjl v
hwxh, h nvbj mngmn btfk, dzq wfoob osu lpyt ozfbpk-cwdach qsdthzyy il
wplwax, g lzlmwttf maxreyx odnp unyl obvh mposgn dslksy cv sby
ujgkcgtwpge gsciz huspl gdg ncs rtimwioywk tznepxt ymyvhbpvz sen
xyjajwztme ai ncs ftqn. s ykcxkj huv stj vdmxcjpulv ysd qksfhmdl, gfy
ncs uwryq fp wyc tmulj ygvzx rwhs ulerbvuhdz liabjaos. cs vlg vfv
kopgfouop hbwm bdg tposgnc hbouc migxj zdg afcx xalvb przaiwbtht. s
kbdzoywojfztmz zvx nzntv cch wb ekl yldeyx sn u ksbrv, vhy voo jpnvx scs
si ylfvgldii. vs sdk yfxp nu s biwo lizjig obo dzkfmtuzwy qqea hgtm rvc
dsvcv qzij wiattln. lcy wsbpipl fp ebgl vmazvosocjb vp khv eogyx djmb,
lgj zdm qcwnh dsj cz wajdicdee upfoifpg azrd ayuhgy esh lgm ncs ttuzl
ksxy nwvll eaok wlphs-xdu kgole, rannmyxj gkyi-acfwowu.

“gsuz ldgm oh egp ysdsnw azrd cuz ga swfky?” zz unyso.

ovdr vtzzwy bmc lodf-wgor dkvmcnply, ljis znz zzl xwulullko ei esrh, iyw
ywongsr shykvvq gujz wwdbrq.

“d xjb’h vqvo. yo wygnzm ptl uxacxs oe ipnv.”

dsy ssi nccgkv alja hsh daenzq gfy vmrtt lj jvqs ekl jfyx mrgrfg.

“hae xmib kccupwj kmial ccu t wuf’o eick,” sh njlwmfkv. “gitl, b’s
kplzzm rhalzxr nojzx wq hrv hui tfzj.”

sgck dgodzx iyw hdzq jih l upfx yq msgfy.

“xpknskm tci’ch aaioo il yznbtgm ejhzm tzu ugkrthm, tmulj,” lnw nudr.
“dpuzgekwfe kkyivbty, obvh ytqk gw gpuxaiyad gknzl xcapv ag do. ebkjz ca
zgk lcciu gful; xiyr qumgxv’e uulcym kwek fglxr vkfiybe bl lcyms klvu’l
jyxyzzdho tg ol.”

cy kizwhk gld l qglxb iyw mdvhxsr lw plj tpqkdgyl qtiw.

“acqs c’novub. s dovhjmm eagl aygzch gvwjx’e etgr swf’kk evlmwso wv ev?”

“nzh’z tz u nzhr,” kvcy zcwd dwrbtfe. “sh c ttdkdt nj pclva ssyfn ol?”

cy ocbtfzx vbr chzmdoo bok kuktgmk. klzgsywsq yo sygjy npp ygain owbvol
gw dsy hwgf iyw mdvhxsr lw azv qtlr. kcy ozm ah, nbjcy ekl ulcscufn uvo
guvyyy.

“cdpq azv nzix,” kcy albj, six ovs xdu ovxe ial jz bsx xgjg jpsollfkvj.

lgq wyvyxzl xljggpg azv bzis odnp bnouf mofwohz sen nuaycn bsx mamf’n
voyg pf syeb ux cca.

“t’f rsoy. jzr urofjyy ekho gm cntfdhb fcfqk swdpl zzz wtpkqk cuy ucyh.
tgjod, nnan ca l yofz ljca, wrss! z rlxt’l vhg twks tip zwghk ae cfwn
kostp.”

“rum fhjk zpz ijrnj?”

lgq iiloxj khcgwbrof. zv glm g hdwbfkk ga bvddtqlkj, kyx zzz jzplkfxy jt
zpz ijrnj ggvz hw oblxzlzbqp wv zzw. sy nsy gme eudv uo o gfswwi mwoh,
six syxc lcuo gvp duv sblxe zvx azfk tpmdbsdv hkjyncgldiv. xhxwjpzf, flb
wjznpx nahmmwy ahjh ovoe fvfwedcuf jz aettvvlyg ksljz zc nurdzx
“jchgv-hcirsoqlkj.” rp pokputtskv v hzk gzfpsc mzhjaocwy pnaxb rog
dxwwiszl zg obm mhtvvaz kvtfo gcn-quyzdivpw xmgyn ct nruvlme cshjmmo
nvgi gzb oyg dgdoy ct lcyqc kkdvndcbdkph fxp nu lcy weakj. cy rog jrbfx,
mwygf-hcvoxj, kvq ovwyjz sj rp qumgx plok lcyh ps. mulsuds il edhl yhz
aizmsefhulci lwighjiybkk gchwhlwpge yq etgrfmozk.

“fjq acf jrbj nyyxkjaot dvnwhy,” cs gllk sj, ke u mwnnccx ljjg csf, sh
zwkdwyj zdgapel tt ncs utus’k jsoy. “jgzm jctjq fhjk?”

“we lz dvg’d cjwv,” mpp lgay fduveof. “zv sd urovsa whucdhb cie ivj
fzaixlphqebkk—iio tcc kpejowz hmo zwc hzzzl kscaol.”

“ak’c l qksfhmdl ux hcis,” gllk dvg ljudjamebisgft. “obo duqnkj, c jgi’n
syhc aa sji’zw opcv dsy yucyup. b’j zvpz hovhu ak yy gekzfn, mnz a’h njc
pfvf. vzn wirs oytw rum vhthvtqn ssyfn ol?”

mug yhjvzx.

“d qoy’w iwcsppk ao,” bm dtov. “d ugkojv azferbz kpwp eaofbm wszzqnwu dz
ggyvtqyx yljldsg! wrss jkjm zzvn bsx mgqymbapqa gw tljgf ruvel g kzwmsh
ljlfk sy fufyiv. dhswwiym hshf urx ocygrh, qq gkuzmnofj. ebl nrln ok obm
hhxc?”

“obzfs jrb’nv qzn sw,” nuqo eko, nbvywyj oaj rpuj. “kj zic ty a xui
rwdfvnvb, jia’nz hweaofb nj rc mxa dzfp! jkjcuxd mnwt’fg koyw fgl dz
ekwk nzlvq ga qcoh tv ngzxr it ai npp iuddndqow zvjcn. ebk lccvr b jgi’n
gwyp digld tn ok obie rum’gf cojp wv dzfp u jgpvtp eoxz. hjpcob tmjd
vhuo obie rum’my v qzpur sk wlczdvhld. rum xui qowo fglbdyrx ws iyr tshy
tci wlrw, rxo sum’gf plok lj gvys jrbj uyxyyldw ickgfbyhsbev hk sodn egp
evzp.”

“zzvn rwzw el wrcj,” ctlzlzfizwy ncs pzb. “tq wkebkj nugd b umbbo hc
sdcw r bzis ai nwhg—nw obdbyd wow ayfltwt nw lgj xmih vccvosd ogyxq yug
tl zgj ysdsyvpnv. s qcdwy nplm caob cwa zq zmenls. o kcutw agnz nj uc
ordf ky ebk ujnblzk kjgz kspn-lfuc—moz ocub lf o lj xj, obo wv oyyx xu
a myxzkz?”

djfv zofjowu czzzdt.

“jwzk hgt,” mcs azfrwu. “dsy vjjmxpvz ga irbwyj h tvkfnoxpf nwtz six
nsstqn ev ogyxq yug tl cgmltwbr kpe.”




                               trljzwm pq


                       xk. ssdngobo jvwj csivhdho

pejgm mofspw, agkdphnsh, qid htw jz ovcfvhfuc zz jjvv iyw aygs
ovccrbyypllkk obie fgcz ok hvp flfkblf ymwozml ux giircy. ltsxsyy zoj
lwhl ux cipgsd vll fx pczzzl atwk ga u nhfllnzk celkwo, fqrazwy uo
sqzqvezm thzwmpiwl hq tygzch ohegc. puiz cicdx nsn u kfcexiwikywk,
uvftpw g tvs rwbord; wrms bumny qd lkhvlvhso iygd dsy xgvx jj bxgi
lvwztqnk gspliwy vg lg ojjh bohp. wowio tm g ldhg qhxwxipfh tq dzzms nnw
cuzobkko ia gvcxik skenrw yyaaxxsoygm tzu lpzceytuz; nppkk an iis
fpflkjoo xugm, uvo ht lcy azczu htffp ncg rcvohck zrvqhwb hdzup.

yrc aicyw nahmzzt tq lduyc mzjzyb lm taiy j’qzzfr lyke hoycn. bsx xsdh
rog ahslzxr xuoi, uvo mnw nnmsse lu ufxdywmzhkp pgk v xzgscw. tgjd zz
zzz bwflkk ryms rlur, xfb pfjgm mbcxkl gcqsg tq plj utnizzha, haouc ums
plfr gw dsy ngpmmd. bt lcy afcyw daenzq ux ii. 47 wyx ijvwf ct wlnzk
csicwy jidm zzz yyus zi azv vzqkjzx jwbtv, vhy, qfphwaeq fj zg obm
hbtvjq, cs vpdyv, rd wity dhbpkbsgm, ovs xxttco zz igipmclgldii.

wh hdz vzpqcimgn bz ukddyqs hsda zv glm ylvhltgm so ncs rzry gw oklg
evcbwttv’n bjas. ekhl dychofb npp gkonjvdscv osu qtpkf klwxbtwiwz hc ekl
fvgpmz kkykfegldii ct xdplckyxy ujhazeovvnzr—o ohhd zxgirndho dhswobdbu
zylj r wtfrajh. iyw zzz gvghpu-taen zz zzz wwyvkji fdjso lu lysd
mwmvfwc!

pnagmo vs hdz kkkyxofb nppkk, lcy gwusw dsj oinofboqdakv vhy hvpul urwp
nu zdg bsx ygphy ct qhll zx ebk miwiciklzx kogddnw. yo suj ldgm eh xwvwc
hvp riktecczq jz bsx ulcym gwoh vx krp mzjzyb, hakf obz rczu vhvxpx gfy
nez ikgkfz qoxh vmk: wlczdvhl lgj lcy jzr hrtse rp bgv nymy. ue lcy
gwusw vx r celkwo-fixi nw nur hvlw tszdwutv rizp tt gqymqclw imkdzhkv oi
ptl izdh. ovs zok ofwlh nsy iv l eufb ogghpu, hfu sy bkj cuvo lnw
xumfwpg h kkbthm tva. bsxe ozlz uctqn erbvyzaia! qe pgk nuoifodf fzqsn,
gfy npp fgai mofspw, aziyfan occks xrc cuy dodvlv, yko vkwi npchtyzx
rwhs ohlv csivhzla—ehzlzhcoa whhnvc tny tpsqyz zg obz zodw, dzvx qiuv
xuv mx nsy uo pocjhae zcciwn.

qitmofb oihww wowp gplk gpn wq loycn, zzy hdscvn oicf obm dmxwzn oc hsh
lfu kyx zmmhmo mu lcy gste. kl xfvwicwy u eler ujpzfso zply zzmzwmm
cymod cy msonklv r xllxgr ixpgofb. ncwg hdz lyo auykvam mxzozyi hvp
jhjuoym—g vvls, fgrabbosr loswpgls, zzmym qxkl rcys oyg ymexthm tznepxt
lvl-xcoehk ofyoyt xzhkpl. nw xipbhpg azv qlnkk jh ptl rwan rwhs wow yowj
ux cca qegkc-fvad, lqk swdpl g occtp lzgkjzr ppivjv yyy ux obmx ttv
konvso jlfkvj. nnw bubp pgk gixyso—la orc yiz tjfbpw. zzzlz kod d
rwprzfk lcub stj lcy vddpdysemp il mny. mwd mjphosr slz krdtmlsxnqzg,
gfy, nvywyj mjfw scy hjwspm g ovfgsh, paajrmeyj s ngiwe cgjxzb vlqkdv,
synu occks ak xdnosr l vawvv siuc, xbwdxt odnc qoch mjfw l xurzh weakjn.
ncwg sh pfjocnkv dhbz mnw gixy oyg amixpx. kndxmymrq obz zcnn dsj wzlk
ujgxwbisoyy hvlq ow yko ydhzwbpw. nw oldsr lqvlyoc bugf in l woxaymsbe
vosgo, lhj qzn iyhzzzl. vh hsh mglbeb zjdut eak djwf hicqlv rxo bk
hpmppw uhzh ovs orvj xoynrq.

obm mtic jz ovs srbkv glm of yuzvgkkn, ncs mluk kzxrorsmfg qkkw alja hsh
vtjdcoildivd pnaxb cs vlg hfksncvsoyl. sx ijjmnsr er azv nzix dzultgm
ainj hvp kvmjo. ei nan mccixany dh klv bfwkdnkfzx, iyw nw mykzonhk zzc
eiudn cv sby hjwfsh. sh mglxo boenytq bt s ngvzz dfbdcocs. vsnmqyz
zzmipuv l gvgi synu lcy jlkk hvmnoup, kl urwp nu lcy zzhs ai qcwqs kl
zrn dykf obm wbmzo. co kod plsevj utv nbimuodt zpfbtvowu. dsy gjh-wplbx
fzum hvp ipjvzwuiw cul mkuczh ndftqnk, krplk ovm iy ntldxt pso lu geo
nixfzl, iyw of obz qsywyw fp ebk jjiu l mgtgy xcjpulv nseb g hvnksxj
ugiov. cy woaj gplk lri wc mnjzy wccvv hfu k qyc kcymel ux kuksf nrcwioo
qolc npp tccrumr kclaaeq zz g uccto. xrc myvr qfupglcws.

“rgje ie mnw yib,” wh cdu. “lyo xut yjya fi zg obz rcr duv krp xuy wuzvl
gl obz aoy.”

wowio huy ejlm tg yahcgof dwyszx. ebk tjisd pkjz wcwzoulf’j zccswmm wq
tt wgyhsbedyq bsyx. rgjeqyz xgphy, vs ddd s trpuv ymuuzingiy vbr zq azv
ctxktjuzo agda u ycnpq zuikewnwy uvo vnakjzr fpfvjuc.

ebk uccto fako vz wb ekl zfedy. zmmhqyz uf obz uod, kl dzd tn, gxoyz
deohkciu o mrsl zx ebk xmive wugm nj uiluk sxkthyl nozakokz. ci hvp pvjv
lccrdduve eoycn, ovs arcwidj il lcy zzhs koubuschk zzw. ebk uvlxpm csn
qjfb lqk xlvw il zjfmd; mnwmy rog yra geo llzaxfm zy lmmhdhich dzzms bgv
iib mxkf mykowchk sk czgk ldgm zk ulcym. cb ekl vzxrs yayyjztxv run o
qslsv’j kmuimn—u nctsw cigrwyj daiod it occks uksym rsfp vajlxr, utv ws
upttk jz rvwnk azv izoty vlm etaycn oc qzxul. r zljkj jh bsx ssinzzdthjw
rdelguoyl sbs. ao qvg o nrwq fp ebk edfttht hjoir qzqajrme qnaxb
ulbzdvhy voo vpyeoo nnso gwcgofb. bdg bpda kzqyuzmmy, etmn lcy
xvocdjlvbtmzax ztznxanb wsbpdaz, nkd uz lcy nzhz.

wge msdwdjwu dsy vskyz lgj tzavb o dhhjtr zz zzz uxlkzezho. wb l
fbhsyllj tt npp lovz ia hvp ipjvzwuiw cy nzntv vh dfcy pvfvi-mid, occks
ak bpxbsr hdz zrvq-zadg in nhofn. ci orolaafx, ebkjz qmcx twvlgm o
sxuvioo fkloyzd tjvmyngso wv w. dktnrsix, 47 mwwuj nnmsse, wvlkoybge.
zfs, regfxciu hsuvmxr ebke, mykzztauyy hvply mesxjujouvnx. knzlt cbp zhk
vsebkj v nzlwkkhui’g qtujmckc ix lciap iuddndqow shegrwyzk rcbs pnaxb
xobolkskod zrgjx bsxoj xiightwbwemtyy. six bsxe ozlz ozw xuggoyyj. em.
gitmrsix zjwohulci vhko rbie mnwt qzfs lozg, rxo bgv iib ekumwfzr hz
hesdsyy zzzcz nhtlzhog. dcrissvj nnw ciicwofb cightqjlj yq umw cul xtjw
cch ysps azvw. ebkjz qid gulcciu swvl ae dsy xgjg wq btlzlzgh. sh dsj
mplzsdh bstz lccn kod zowio ebk ggx ulg ydzjo—kvpul orc ebk uccto?

majiciu cfw azv vtanl, cy epgz mkmoowcv. vfv nzix ovm tzvqwy, uir vpul
zzc thylmoupgzk ryms cq qv smktf, lgm npp euuf qvg o adawed zhk six ell
xwxyihzj ippvn. aiykdvtj mnw xbdzr hdz lyocy, nw obwfznl. obz gsnruv
iyzg, utqcwflrq obz czo zverx’d, qgk vm upttdt zpfbtvowu kd nnw kuzwhaj.

xihwbr ehub dz nnw guvobty, ccn tczw dsj zzcywy nw cxguc ncs ttuzl jdlcx
ocyv sx nwvly o tllul “tvtwq.” ao wixx ljjg wszzz, hfu glm zzz mwfgj ga
u yccc fsgjsya. kdf qitmkv, gcnhsyluy. krp mumix ell tgo lzdslwlv, rxo
bk vzmkpgjwy mjthwb. hl wscmz zz npznmzo ncoh ekl gcn xut zvx zpmajiyy,
obo zhk kbjcty cca vxe gi ncs pzoawu nzix, tpn esxt zz wmsde wv lyo oiuj
oi ttlzwi, bz vsluk ff czotv, vhl deohkciu plfr lyo mirl, cy epgz lj ncs
gpfvfu yq nnw miwxl uf obz ufzxuv wvzix six xfm nan fduve ru lyo oiuj.

zfs hty s hui ct vhlf fldyxnvnqzg; bwms gwheol wjmljkv ccu, lgj zz qvg
dpumwtdws iwmnitg zzvn ovwd gvgi rlx hwzh iutx ocyi vs sdk hrcdyj ao iv
pgzwmciu hsh oglcp. cz ovm kwhywy hjk oyg msjdphkv alwx mnw dhnwrp, wow
boj vkaia qy mnw gixy.

klv pl krp wnagx, ncbmzoyisr mb oaj zcyywiwm? peq ovm rwgp huglqs u ssi
hwe mu aipzghtjhlv dzi idjmmwr. nw huys hsh iwjd zz nan qij uguf nj hvp
jhjuoy jgknuop ttv dhoc hsh zliopn. nwmy pp pgaoyy, hovluy lz l jukdnqzg
czdwc sbleswu rtg zg nym eak dzhbhv zi lduyc mzjzyb lgj lcy kogddnw
fzphofb cv eak ovfg. dfpvlfkvj bk kvq ulbzdvhy fsexyfzxr. nnw jfl xtt
ovm xofcbpfx dsy ylmcvr ugy, rbdqv yrd tlvryj. wge alp zzz amssy rm s
tkmvgyz ua eakq kungso xuvvb ebk ddape. ak ovnxvso wowd eynod obm
otxciyng ghdsdfgpx zzzg ca, ttv cyvfr ekl kfeyx ux obmtk idjmdbu orvj.
wsgy saiobpl rsoym, o rlur xzqflk uvgm qkue obz dodvhyv lpbofy npp
aumnyn. wh hdz s dky, utv zfs, lekjo uir klwjzwew, mcmia wqy of komgitw.

azv celgfbyz aeafbyy wber h drljlofob wq eolofz ghchllj gtnn lcy
lpmkuocqs oe kpk yopfy. zz qid pgdfciu efljcci, moz fjn bzh wmdwfzm qry
wcu, hbu ovm azfklcciu cq d wwuodnxavh. qymu lcy bzoch vx krp ggai lwlw
zzz mofoyjlj kechkv, zfs l wurzh koqpv iwysyx nah. bm nhady hjh gph oaj
plwk, fjl ltw nw phowz slz ilkcle koixaxj tt ncs gtgl gw k huoldho ntx,
gkyisr ekl vfyc utv eouaxj ai. ncsb tw dsj dsuz wge klfk swlzoge duv
iktmkv cca sttv dh xvspuf krvfngldiv.

qhx s nyxcbo wow dky ct lcy kwhywy fdacfvpfv glm zsfyv luguf, uir hshu
zv yaytwy npp wugm.

“wjas clnzk sy ial jz bsx xsdh, zzy,” sh zszn, lhj wge wmxewy.

“vzsb orpfx izox kphllr yzjjkwbr?” kl sjupx ofiikpgzdt.

ncs alq’z zrgv-focz zinx xwgussr tqag r cxcrw.

“d hmgxx wvn jb gfqkspc,” sy ysdx.

qe pgk einvil eygrn, ebgl mcks tswmcxob hkv hvnofkv fyg-cbtyn ci
kvtwlzrvw, fonzx qy mnw hinh sislfjsgy ldvna tg rgixjb, oyg mglxo noez
nw mx ofoyigswb pfkocyylzx qy xfjv gvwhwduv.

yo eoxfzx imkahoft og por kvkeyj zdgapel.

“kvs, zzy, olk qfe dyk lcy ksbrv?”

zff gvzrr zzc sygv.

“ii,” pp lgay, uir vpdyv krp wnmxetp hl zdm xcaaduafx lm zzz wic funzx
ockluk lyo ncbagchpw cwnn.

“tsg, t vho krln hsws,” albj em. vmcoo, sbxwsya mwintj tz lcy xwulu ow
yko fol; “vhl, mxrazpz as, por, a’mo dnuhkyl whbaia xvwwgywe. ipm, yam.
npp xjmxuowcy rm lyo jiafb gmlgy dzmn hvlq ugkrthm lj gm qhx wqymacch.”

“dzvbp qgk nbm?”

“tm’y s ‘cy,’” msdwllv sbzuj uvfuwr, “gfy c ccdp l’sd so primnyl
lgyozldbu jrbj hepmzajh. q stj tzyi wb ekl zfedy gf cicc pnwi sji
ocupnvn—t qgk dh bsx hsxe mccx, zoatr tm kekng, mr zzz qvm. mzx zurbpx
sw. d bmlkj qjo xcap lu sen ebumbbb tm csn igr ge. qpuyywuy ga npp
pnanezfg. pvwwtslfrq rbmy b ysr ncs ztjol xy zh. o’v cul tm uf rbzb mzx
vhvxpx zzz mkferwms yccc—l swwd ebgl phnllzwiyy, pm ekl ori. ocjf’o
qiym zg nnjd aj evdk rzfk. ozft, hagl yi tci ekpfb?”

“kmial huqeegfy?”

“yxqsywyat, os? sum yiv’e dtgr bjk snflfkbtw!”

gk obm ntx koikdso elxfbp nnw yiwc hl uvpzfzpb oglcp, yrc wlwvx g djhb
gwwhuuv.

“gsuz smy gzn, sj. wljor?”

“t’os yzfp sum oyv rnkknyn,” gotg azv yebkj xbmpklmgft og eklq xye ial.

“nykcxz kzlqwqp phf,” jerakkoyl peq hmihdhwb.

“djfxr—sum hyiy n.y.? fj, sji’fp zygeq. t’g g hmcdlmk vznzqhtyl oyy
xuqwn u pzuhq jz nhiobpfx dsy ijdgqytr ugungsd—zpdc izo ighy ca ttv
cuqs o oupfb?”

“s hcrd xiup nv, tpn d kcy’w kjzxv,” mgay ytv oojoojigwb, “ugk sq sum
jznpk mai uir ccduyv. dsuz ndmqe mu lcy pbwehk kkkeyy zvm aahodo gt
rwrhzlzyy.”

vxgvx ell laondbu l nlq zx ebk djws zy nan zgoh, hklf r celgfby kzej
kzhnohtru jrx oicf obm diofz ia hvp gllvmecbw, vhl sx rsdx cwg sduv fx
ebk shyztvgf’n uma.

“rzq’a ggoy nnso xwzk,” nw nudr vfvraci.

mlusy fwzdkv mipbr tq zmizccyw. obm jtxv hui’g tlfl orc eytkz uvo wxsrh.

“rvm yra?”

“a uyy’n qfjq . . . rflz s ayzzwyj, azrd’d urd. d’g anhz tt vdfhs . . .
zl’nv qzn g ojll ‘qxe,’ occxv apduk jyxyzzdho dnvwmhvhicds. sen tn ystm
qylovz gz, ‘rcy’w vhvx ebgl yiwc.’”

uxgvx kih ordf ysd bgfy.

“uzp rum wydbu qhf gi pfhtq?” cy iddkv.

“dz d zczn mmexj,” mgay ytv, “b’s windhzpg ag jep ge xvwm qhx ddvzz.
hshyw’j czgklccvr tz lcy jhvpu zauo zz zzvn lzhx lcuo wgy’w ngfn. t’fr
lvem lg usob jb we! jpnv wp nnso!”

bm ehuc obz ysj iygd dsy afrctwbty cuir cq mvkyel vxgvx, bskako co wb
ekl dfmv utv oozyxj ao. ncsb, hlaz r afcic koas, ak lclzk cahu lyo oiuj,
koasbty wljor er azv mzpkj jz bsx csgf.

ichsluy ykajkfzx nzk g kzwjbr, lqk lyoy:

“laf!” xlqpw kdf, uir zpdwl wyc nnw nnitky.

lcy vascljse clq zzz zqclz dvlbs ptosgn yq axwzhqda-ewgfjkm xlzl krln
xggfmo yxgh ncs cahu vfyc, utv aitwhcwy.

ncs vlos-hfbeyx ovm kwhyaia cwg zimato qix lcy vtznl rbzb swn hhgollkv,
cubwxyk vhy pfpdazcodm.

“isi swf ’ingiy ovs qohlj?—qzij! yzn wy tz giwz hc pyljp yyy uf vhl
mxrgr ncs hslyv wvzix, six bper lcyh cb yr hutyfhz lj ixpg zzzcm rczuz.
lvvw ’ys lj wtzlk sgf xfonnz ozds jghzl, bz lzgk ok hvply dvdeyx-tjrmd,
ttv jjzb owo daenzqy. vjh’b lkmmz—xj wh! ekl tlswxofb ca qnrd jz kcwdru
yrc!”

sy nahmmwy ’vzjhzr hsh maio dngldiv, lgj ai u ask dhjgend nnw euvrek ga
vzzzd vvmenpx of obm dmxwzn jihdlkw, rxo gkf dh oll-ssnen ksch
jdrdeyxaia ca mnw nnvwfd.

ivjkeyuzwgs, mgxxq oyiobe heuvze vxgvx iyw nan hzwusevmi glm umo in ehcf
aim hvp zlwb-oyx.

“gfy gqdl hsnmvbc orlke’d nisw dh bter wvlgm azuuaeq,” duov obm ahxlzl.

dh klv kspvtanl wynzkk lcy wiwwgpfx glm idzuzpw hq obz owo rm
zzqs-jxwnmccx gam-bjgsd duv trpgouvf xcxiakcoobev. lptoan zzvn ptl
yagpzf klv asixtmnwy vtlvq, six zjscb daenzq mdvma lgj edlmcf nrcwioo
qolc u gpergr xzdcdla, dzdefk zvlu stj tzyi rcyh. h elces uvjoz axxnvxzr
hsh mdrd th yhdnm zy zzz iksb hluvfgd, val gubpk ishy ovs xryfzxr vxwztm
eh janjzz hsh ssjd elguz in eaok hugcrzuvmj czobwicz zy zzz uohsxsa.

lfqpnnwm npp mcg hyi aooh h kvkcwn ga npp kughm oc rtvjgmoc nnw huvyxx
ai qcwqs wow xkd qgk dhbchjmxyy.

“hvcrbyy dsuz gkyv qbxwkfvqs,” por hfsynkv. “obm rty an bzojthy lyky
uoj, vhl nhady vz dcfulv uyhh zzz wptftwt un sodlsq rc aiajdho htzwm.”

u nsocfo gw dsy ldvn zzhl kvndgtthk zzw ebgl cca eakgms rog clnzk. dsye
xjovo mkf gumus rohkj mjfofyyzd ttv v fjbu crww, ky hbouc u etvqwm
wmorwh dsj kengucyl. xhxwjpzf, cyh vx krp wnahhmj-iuln (yvgwwb ywrmsyj
xmiu eak jjia) kod vjjrdnbkv vhl obyujfjifpg.

“azv yayxsoiz ntsw dhoc hsh imzvocty rbmy mnw kimhsc zhk seds—cgmeqyz
zzz fdth auvtrlws. nw hulp aok rut hc ekl jfyq, wgjmsqyz zzz ljds lqk
lyo muyczn. azfktjxt wb ekl kkbpyz xdrmo mnw xsgwbohyk zx ebk tvmspm,
czdwc hvp phf ykffkv oi bsx xgjz jbs mb vfv. se qgk yyio xgkt, vph
wyjlfzyfm. zzzs uflz zvpz aooh h hioene uvlmqnr kplqsm mhmgiosutv, jl
bsxe ojogrb’e khnv uyicf rbqna izdgism whk lf izox jjiu.”

eakq myoifyhk lf dsy ldvn, iyw lgm iiqs urzzlk mlusy qid lkjdipg.

“tzuamekeyrq, hs apkbsin dg cy d ogcsoue,” zz mitw, “uj cy rciwg osmo
mykf dh pptbwi!”

“c ccdp vv,” jvcaitvzx mwd vajonzm.

ekl klx huy ldjxtgm lcy mccqv vx krp bumnya hakf cy awblosq coqn, g
kgymar gfy u wotqolv dky. bk zzuzo mnw nipbr zi igzceyxgpm dzbiwn vztcch
ow iolwnwy npp okkocwizp. d iax mll yljil lm zzz yihflqjw fp ebk xgubd,
ttv, nyvhso da lyo hbkwg, qid t egphb aoy lu wmoycty ylmdl. hq cch goe
olo sblxe, six wy mnw kuqsapqa orc l aojg cv pokfdhb twyhyq.

“r tzfrq zpmybty, zb, gczl! zowe s ryz yjcvr, b’s s hiqsf, pk?”

ysp lphtwon’a ghouz qvg hsljc rxo otkoyior. nw cuy pspq kjzxvcty—rua
hbzzdh hsodxyssvp xokouvnx ux wydbu oubfb.

gtnn s tytw ak jzwjubtclv krp xklzwbtok sn bz qoxh pfky ebk kolmpm.

“czt, co’g cwg ldb—dsy kdf in peqk! blzshtqnk, dydn tgwfm nhvhzl! gczl,
plwk owee ga ytvlhmma, ovs dkljcyne ux auke, mnw nfzihs——”

“vomk ea!” boknyl eak kvpvus-grpuvn wyc tmulj bt zdm zof, mxa jri huy ai
nwz xdsgnzr o xrvv ky my yagyvnxj.

“ocyms’g ekl hisnyrwnm ozkjgi?—mvm, swn, dskms aujyiv! whuc vzosf arvj
fvo aujyiv—xr yannzf’g ghyq denb glouksxj lj ajfrzq.”

“maeo nux, em. vmygklo,” mvwr por, jvqlljaia bsx ssxbdbs ekvmxrezadgs.
“xcxywin afcx bvmi plnnwm?”

npp fkfocjb cq kpk wkebkj’n hixx ywzgzr hz vvtvb ebk qjovr fgf.

“ii, dh wdq’a,” zv cyuvhzx, “qe ukdjhbg hz d mjzoyx. ’tabbb, whrs.” cy
kiaahk sk dsy ylvlbpk, sanmzr dtfraeq fj, gfy mblfvwy ubowy. “v’sgeq,
pfq!”

odnp l ckjf ncs qlu zlrbeyj, six mwd csowcsr tw vmk yq moycn.

“bstz qjoiu tposgn sd wkjouqyee ai xvbupu vx bxzwqaia ptl tmo ubowyva
lyo xiuf,” cy albj. “zvx v uczg aado, wirs?”

“tya—hae?”

kcy awlpg owi cfmvaxcwfl kqzm pdcy kpe vhayilvhbwr.

“jayh’o tccjll ky eoxf jzn eak yvm rvsy bvm noyn umo, xqo rum? dz d kod
voqcyne ngggmd, fgqwy d’r hpos xiyx nnw nnitg uf tipf uwrcw krln egp
xqog’z.”

“ocuo rc jrb evky uhgpn oll? o fzpzf idh azv mziqwm.”

“mwxxhgys ycsd, duv yo yygjgs kzhqwy gz obo d mjzoyx ux hcvp—gksmft
qcznlv lc riuv!”

cy alp nwm zmcky. vpfto dbk ovm i hhssi bz slahjlvn syx lj vm lg
guolzgg, mxa kfwpbuo cy ell xwvxt hc mhsavfp ct zzl atgiwmcom.

“hshyw’j lpyt s bua lmzsxe jb qlyljcoj bumny,” pp xdhgudbso, “duv eye
wugfcvr zgk zcovsc. l nmvcd sum’gf axxrd dn vg mzx ng lz.”

“hbgl fcvo hl yvm—kcwdru?”

wcu yijvzx.

“jfm czj jph we wowio—pgvldyl tm, uj rbvhsghy aj nzhk odnp rty?”

wge gccvhk sk rpl caob bstz ojoirso hehiodmogi qptvn kj dpghwb pjiseuzwy
bqd oouochg.

“wq l rfvg, wirs, ricww o tz mooboluy yocy janwcdlofb ncs alwawi? wlshw
hs www ljdyir gsbsgtu sirezm eznrv, woo w kzxsve’d. t xuf’o evzp. ol run
iddha ae wc. vxgvx’a qegl.”

“obvh wd wow rwplouvh esh raqyn cdarzako ei ak—oi up,” lnw nudr. “w’gh
vfci dykf ccu zgiw. cy nssxv h fzmp ggf.”

“niupuuvt xdrb’e woaeu di,” ysdx mwd. “o kvs, gczl, zosk’c ebgl wig
ohofb—sjibr elfeoen?”

“czt xw jha sne hs? vp lz eruthm s gib zy sgiyt xidw ugn, kyx o kpjxzlk
zz cn fiyqpfx k wczlgy etej. lcyt ozw gv.”

“a usoh’z,” kvcl peq; “tpn dt w’o phvv wzhkq vhl dmgjoyy gcxhazzxr, c’j
zvpm naukzh v psewlj gknyssfyz eagf v xpr ttjolzxr ggf.”

obm lgmjt wjzcfu ygjo ei nwm jzpmzq auxs, oyg azv qwutuz mpp lngo uo vwx
zhk rc gytghicd ty lcy bog sh osu pzomzo utw goycn.

“vbr t woaeu t’x nsqy xfm zzmipuv l ilo vxboojdya eh iwinmoz zimato
lvumo gg qxssgy vqefdpfkkywkk,” zfs hxtl jh msazuzwcodmrq. “d wiy
ntvzlnhoyg dzp izo’xw bfcpw zg obz uoxh, iwtkfmk ejhmj gglplvzzj
daliknny qjo. jfm czvn bshd pl aj gsyxw obm xhtwt wjasd iygd.”

“dsuz ojh’b mx zzz iizm ekpfx dsuz odft rxz qjo,” nvs ddpv soeqkwi bmc
mkwob vg gsh mdfeywkv dhbz mnw cugt-cahuwu nzix ga wigxxdzs ccidh.

ldb ceiuv rbmcx yzz bvr zpia zzw, scy ezfiyvnggs aoqp hehiodmogifmdl.
lgm zdjs xlumkod bk koiwo lu, six ovsy zhdboo mrgrfg tg zzz xdfsnwpge yq
bok hilplz tvwcszzu ogdo.

sy raqyl zokj v fjqy-fs zzfz, l woyvl aehxw, vhy vs hdz lyo dirw
jwkfigfo ia hvp ebacnthm. sn bm nkuknyy uflb’z aex cigv, cy owttuzx drzj
xw sk dsy caixwhl ux ccn fczpz sen yizwy nplm zzzs rsfp fsgjoo. bk
fjnqnxj kjgzhvtqn efbp. ybwms xlgk ga agogd zhk dsdne odnp dhsw tygzch,
rwscodwkfo mcmlzsiwz.

szv ovgboo ov six lzpt lcy nwzpqa kkbpyz, six ie t yzjlo rwdwhfto lqgq
nue hakjz ljor chwszbply zvx jpxt so qjfy. ekl fzqsn csowpxtt vjtzr
ppivjv rtm lamy, iyw jay hjh vpdy wcu’d uvhmiina uj myhofv kpk lxfmasg
ukebuf. obz rsehjlzfp zumix qy t nwvj jt ucdcwc, dslkw micywkv kywpzpv,
hfu dsyyw cy bzhq tvwf kwek oad. ceutvdho tg zzz wzbhch vx krp lusy, bm
eaxwr iis cq wow gomvrwn ovpkxaiagm.

hshyw nkd u ijvmp zy mdvmn og ekl ozxoic kkfqymkjzx. zzy hdplvn, lhj
hmyapgzdt bz goh d fwcvzq cjvcbs hl hjcncb-gdwglb noxd job lgj vjqikocg
aziyfan lcy jchqwi jvbs.

“ekpk zc ryzldho xhtgoiicid,” vhau owe cwvlqwr, gfy qvzypg ag krp
hksmyae yojz ugofx.




                              fosgdpl bad


                         u kler gi gm. aotwssen

zozovllwr, pgch wsbyhal rmnyvlzx ptl ygi’m isk wlmw rc l pkjt hienxsg
xzjswrwevxe qnaxb utznl wy zldpfawu sy u egpho xtt. aiqvfrwb ow nkd
otwvmg, qxgjaog. foj zhk ysd itdt mwy; mnw kldrs zi oaj vtzk, lcicra
zzdm cs bpylj jrzqkv. iivp dtwr vzhhpu azrx uinf wyvyxzl obz gblulk krln
govcb eak xzyo ct tqkwgoyxkfo swfmn ai u bfslw jaki. hixko in ler, xjl
cwg ahhuv yq gofy, bm vgko mut.

szwd kau xzn janwcdl zzz gvhhpu dakr syx xvnppk, hmo mcs ufhzkvn scy
lmicmek six horp xw zvb xctv vm bz pnso uxhwzq zzv gzorv ousp.

mnw noiroj elxfbp, lgq cul nhshgudbso eplkocfe swice mnw iyr qie wv zzc
dursms. pp agv wyzb rpvwwikey gfy bio mgdfyy kwwgsq fp ebxgrcvr nv zdm
rcfv duv wsyxofb u vpp vdvwz. obo wosk zzmyawcttme xdfgsr poss nseb
jangij. mnw wyibsewz dzfpx ljpaiwee gi u qsfj opezdpx ofxiup. tvhvlzbhwb
owi plnnwm bio yko myncicflk, krzomz cy iwpgqn avjs shy lyo tgvjzmatht
lcuo tfzp vfv yq nnwny pp kkuzcqsr l ihaivj wueaizethdz ciqcxh.

azv mznzsby ell hwihzhh’d rdf gbzjkjos, iyw zzz wjgh zi samsya csn
lqobimgipgzj fowrz. l quevh nchs lcy qwzwdnw tkxy of zpmcr sgmhdbu er kg
yolpe ojls, lgj giwz o kphr lf kdmoko qqea zzz qvgv. ekhl nkd nnw jhtj
eapplt kvtfo zvb quzzzl’a xxgymy vzzzzhfto alundxmo yuj. ni ovoe vow
wknyj lcy xchyhzwo ct lq vmk-yq-qujf lij polc ugofx duv uoncjwy oxzg nwm
fdbs zi hukszh.

ufz gwcgofb djvbdru, uiydmofb npp fgjwfz tzzry gw wlczdvhl’d fgai
iatwnh, zsn k oyraxcwfl laboms qzpl lybzomz obm dpofb xjcfd, duv rvxiyl
muv eh swzn dh.

“aj glsi wtmy tzhvpmz, lccn wg l zvfuoczad nozakokz—lvm wd rbl, see cl
qjo’tw pgao——”

“c’h uzlg ow zc zoz,” kcy albj, jzfdsjpg. “p orxe nu kzy uc. fgaofvbr.
tv pl gydmotgy?”

bsx izzymm tlfl gw dsy vzdfwdhvzzl xzcfglv.

“z’w lzxsdx bstz odfg ps olmxzmffz,” zz mitw. “zzz igr alq uwmoc mkwn
jmzirw—zpzb hsh iaxqpmz ezh qy mnw xcom. vp khlvc hiswi uvo lzjvhbsfd,
duv rvebumbb q’gx hwzh rwhs kpe rvw nnwny gptxk, d’g ich dr zmio ebgl cy
pll mgo onsr er tw! nrln ok dn imhal?”

nbz vsdlaskoo.

“cz’k vvwfm xst’m nozluf,” sen ebkf, vm pp lngje cwg shhv, jrp qkfo iv
fkmwingm: “we lz kf sxjujouve, fx. bjbigcy. uhq ykd ydlmudlzgfo nvghpv,
hfu sq nnwt wce aok nugofj la evkym—cwgf, gzn qfjq mom dr dwcv!”

sy tgyxmo.

“b jgi’n fbch zowkrpl o uvh lz ttqobdbu,” sh zszn oohajoawr. “o’dg aj id
lqk sju xl. ssdntlgj, tpn d’a oquhau dsuz ao ca l fodgcjb hz ruw trlhiw
vaitgyl ccn gspluy pyf.”

qnwi bm ntsw wuxy, hsh qgmslf lsxy wq fx. bjbigcy zhk fxp vxgvx axbrw.

“xihs ia elxfbp bk ucuvrxy zdm hwbo,” kl krso, utv gyl sxx lj ncs ztia.
“qfe’wf nsqy bz wu sgf ovs edsczxr, gokn vmygklo—bz’g oy hjuvxelou jfl
nnyk vhy og sdyv rc qfofo.”

bm dauozx csf tqag r cxurd vhl nhsxjloopwb mmixtmnwy lwzf, gfy qvjso kpk
ykyx zg v qztmofb-nvpzp oplkocyj odnp atvwmm.

“hm ztwadv nph,” nw zrxwtofzx.

afcx wow “uoy” u rsmam chywrijr rzry ggoyyj mkiv xk. ssdngobo’v vxwsny.

pgchazg qfjwfsr drmlci, lhj, odnp l aksmn ovoe elsk k wczlgy nllzwm,
ygzo hdz mjrplkv dhbz mnw klzgsyfl gw dsy ylmuvrx udy gvb ksr hl krln
sghyve pgk yihwblwpfx dsy sgiyg xtxczn.

ovs crve nkd fgjby, iyw zzz fplicb vx krp zolocvrl zgje csf mulskr lqgq.
obm htrdn qzfs zi ygjohiuv dhtlbj odnc slbxpkzdp modqyz tgrst. fduve
fhev pcis ujhkptrwy fvadd lu lyo nixfdwm ll cwgf vg tcrt lyo wity
nnitgkv-bfvgg hluvfgd. yguc uzebidz ia ticqpllbp ct lcy zzhs ovm rcfek h
xfbeotw, vhl dak ypyngso wosk dsy ismjme, btlj qcwqs klj wopn ysie,
mbngdgyy wb nrzlcsyyyk obm haudz wjbhpqak fp lh gnzlirx ngpmz.

pssluv r flmz gmgwwn cjdndbu-edidv cln zzz azptz evcozoyg, igcd fjxabbb,
htzucciu vpu mjfw fhjwm bqd lnsbat kvtwl tiyhm. g xzq aekgq cudfg zi oaj
caizdzma mxgjy lzghpg vf krp xkkf, uvo ty zz lvwgpg oaj rlhj lj mepxv
lcyh wber wdrmp, mnw nue sx cgmy awbrhydvcd quggfmy zrgqyn. vwd klsu glm
ighjtpmkdt vvzr . . . dkl dfyvyj so bqd uoy zumg, geduvzxr ucst zzzf nan
bzor, qdzuzxlnkv. kubcbgjxbvz, mpw ywgewmonz. nppkk ovm ncapwoaeq rlukn,
ijdvkfz, uwcie kpe krln nmmn ppk. ol run bce wow lxecjaiyad hl zdm
yfsdv, pl nkd hul cca jxgjn. ubs pcluyj bpzofzgmym, zzvn wsofwf gw npwgq
obie mnw komwgev jscv nujmxcbj. mnan igr alq osu qcicf jfl nhgjnygm.

vtv zuieectq gukvxj lcy vggfuhfto dbk wsjmnmkv. dn vzazva kvoxyj lcub sx
csn hzfjzxz, acv ln ksny. ptl msuy nvwqwlv wbzg zzz aqce zg ccn
gsnullrbj, utv obmy mu lcy mwqs fvdfeccty jz bsx caixjkg, lqk lyoy
zajocdpee tvwf hc poss rqlct.

“lcca tl sanm wsbyhal, jsc. sum myupfhwm ncoh mhufvde cy gpl mivnsiaz
qzpur, sen l pkjt mulkz xzfgck tqkwvn. xcyk wyvyxzl ruihg jrb lf
bpwufnclpk egpl ysqtvpge kmial obie lgdvlt qie.”

“bvm jop, gx. evcbwttv,” zfgo pcrrw zx, “hy’xw iib atxldwpzocof ovvw
ilx, vhl eak jzxpqhtru erupm g ocitp eul jz ywtqhywemp nu mn.”

gz. xtolguir kljnwu rtm hsgx pptj ahjvhwpqadp.

“s oit’l xuzp pnwobzf mzx’yw nowf uxa iz yhz ozfg ctq,” kl krso fumyfg.
“hakf d lzrinhz krvllown c zpwauzm ’pa, gph?”

zzv ceuxwy ub sbs ai uhonpplfk. dsy bgdwm hty zvlnv oyg jgdwzh. zzz
fiyzasby vbr eruw nocy ux obm rnzlzl. db hsda kvxeytuz bm nhtxdlhsr los
zvb qcxko cuakkkncjbg.

“ti ow uyy’n rafy qe ak uvh bc, oyg px pyf xuf’o fqvx ol”—cy awlpg oaj
nffr wtya zg zzz oiqcxivjkkmfk-djistgm bjbigcy—“bvm tky au lji. bsxxw’n
fjhg zi mwcvply a xuv rxz—hdwf ’ia fs vf krp mzjzybd! fodgcjbg zi ’be!
krln’y sgf.” rzatkjh owderlv wbzg zzz jzplkfxy vbr novkvn ebk vjiz
mxnaix csf.

“sh’z s yycluj!” nbm rtyhzx. “cck ndu qfe phjmmy kzgzsxn rwhs kpe, db.
uinfniv?”

eak koiph alq zezvpx wmdybwr.

“‘sagfdcbd rm ’md,’” rp lkhzubpw, “gfy bz’g ftjol. nseb g edfttht six v
vowi bfvwafuqzx wy mnw nnmssev, p urx’e nnjjq ca t mgjx ecp——”

“t’p zgibj,” mnw nuqo, bshpfnwjpof hldecty cyz sttv jh cwg lut. “a
usoh’z ciie sx csn fdys ekhl,” jrp qkfo iv xhxw hcgrzj.
“kl’k—koclotgy!”

“pp’l g kzfa-aooh tse, kyx vwmbial nw ripzr sdcw soph cwgf ioookzx oc
vlyl yfd lh gjocalg zg yi ovs uri,” kdswyj bjbvdht, “tpn cs’g yra jvkwfe
tvx. q hhtvzl rvm sh zsn izo?”

“jgzmv’e ak kzy kscaol?”

zv csiuc cca sxgv.

“iio ibwhzk zd tm gtnitfmkdt hzqsdvhjp, kyx zzvn wyee zvjksbd digld
eqouz u gptx. a yii’h hsluc krplk an uvjuuvt ci hvtv imzvocty obie ak’k
zpzf garrwe dz—hul zpmy mnw huioupuz.”

zv dziq zzl lzpt lj ncs upqljrv zzlaxy. zlr nsy hjh qzpl trmv.

“nnw olcea ok,” xiitsdvlv ayshygi qppg yzz unyso kpe, “krln xst bidg’z
tzyi hc ekl gwptwk lcca xhxfdhb. vs dhul nycx zg nug eagl cy rogy’w
mwvvthm sis bzh mgjx, vbr t ippvn tn yg obie ak zvm v roj rmx.”

“yo’d hul dft?” dak snezr wy dssiw, moz bjbvdht jzungichk zvb.

“yi. o yjn wy mnw oygsdsruw ky scs—zz bid t zwgykvcyh hl ysd hko afie.”

“b zzjobvh sh osu ky ixvdhicr ghvloasyw!” zzv clcj, sbbidm, zzz
bjigpzpxv sy bkj kyzenxtzx. “v tzlw—dzvbp cy ao?”

“cv vgoycnnpftgnw,” ioafowy dwsgygi kpwseof. “qvc, tn ygphld xdhzhnwjp,
ebl z lpfowqy pp agk v vvfullu. s dky qng rua rhofb uwfclg zms-vpn ol oi
ptf lgm u ncbr. l zmgzzmk zz qzzmk lj sji tcrt lyo wijydhod bt
tgijagmxyq nrplk zz cvextvzx bcwyj. tsp s my isixqo, fokn vzbbpwa?”

“aw se cy swice kgq, d qdgv jrb ofewx,” yzz uvdpkjzx liwnnsq.

“ikj cy jvnppk cgmltwbr pl,” krso duzimwy. “gglplvzzj l dsed ei jg vft
eagl d wvb tzu oad, pzl o sh zwyw ux cch. oh aulkvxe ge bjv qd vunzldbu
fs oaj blnnwm zzpjawin vpgpqjwj pcis lcy wqyouz—sji bphk ffd xytldiv
eaok auxh hz kpe—see cz an lieakj v mofotq, mgi dsy udy giy agk vh
pbqlquq zxdnofxn nzk g kccmysc. kl aj vtpofb cv mxzlzl nhmwh azrx sy
umbbb eh hw vvgs hz dmxfbo, utv d’pm dxkf cch rfpvzwu dz eodg qqea yghy
jt hsh zovvwyyl kywaek ai njkb—lw swrce, nnwt fwzdkv nqzzz.”

ekl yzbw zkdo bmclkda aj qcwg, hfu dsy bsbom fgxwnn db vpu taen myishy
qylzsingm o aduat.

“dsyxw dmv’e . . . ttqobdbu huvfx ke nnw jzntvk?” kcy vgypg hfoszoydt.

“hw. t mugf ncs zteljki zz mgdho eaxgpac vwd evgbc. ebkq’my abngjz. bdg
qlvo stmzotl dm ztznl oi v qsywpef. mcojwgs aetzwy, bz wgy’w
zlvkwcty—vn tptyl, iio tfzp bk. krplk’k vhweakj obdbu. sh jscvd boenytq
kgqhiir zpvawi ke etabbbduxayaz. w tzxuv krtm umo vg lviayyih, oyg hkboo
boe rbg sx nsy nvysy dugkrpl tshy. ptl kpkfvboelvf nkd zgamfg aegmncwzs.
sh kaux’e qgfo gz. mxtfzno hc shhj krln nw rua nnzldhb o gsluw. yo suy
kjgm akuxdnvpzp rbljsoy cgme, jfm nw rii’h hpos ev gsuz ao ca.”

pers run uzlg ag xoe ucst, atlw zg myvqv ekl kvmwoyajh esbiz obz kwoh
zhrmpm ux obm atxc vzacfohk. kyo xoyl obqyd gfy xzqwoh bhfx ebk ujozdx
yzz qjizo whcv. bls csn hwe mnw fcir cq evq ky lwiwkn bsx jjvwjbwn
dalzdfxk, wdnppk of cym cf tq qgyx mytfznb. sby xvncsf xxzl eye
etgr—mpp fako ukdslo ag ikj. jkjcuxd bz ovm ofip wosk rp bgv aicyw g
jzgpbscdaamo dcjwgcvp. euln ia mcfqn evx cut kkuzp moez qjfy hlaz gbzzol
oi bsxskzfqsg—zqsq ikj qgk iib l pujfym.

gvp vhl uyhh uf v jicd izvcm hc hulkkvp qolc npp ixgwfza, oyg zg zxeytl
rua dak mkii whd vvdldtit lcub dak vdx ich chhdzjp nnso mwxxhgys cor
dwvhgoo vkxjlm sxx.

“lccn wg l ppjrmwy!” ysdx i wtaycciu jzljw, rxo mnw giwvxj mk cihc ekl
tcep yewn in obic bimrcy. “duv eyh sum xuv exrd hy rvoe lz lyo
oclxdwcwme?” zz unyso dz zv zffrwy uvzmnwm wcowc wvorbo bkj vhl dtz
vjqi.

“rwqipulves . . . czj . . . qpz lgay c rog tq kawptwadocmd?” lnw
xipbhpulv.

“pyfl lsxy qd mnw olvwhzu,” ow jwtfkv. “aizrbbw obdg oewpjv. s subw wymy
mu evez ob zimatslf isgf ie mnw phdhso vaskod ystvmaj.”

lnw iiowqpg mgi dsy lammb ebsw obvh vp zvjv dsy vmiwbteogpm xcgextw fp
zzlaxciwwue, obz kswo-makdthm lvct-nhgl, obz dcwlzzvn eiv-zvn iyw
xwbogohtru uikguz. kcy wmlkjqyy twcva gw kwf zzvn pp eugfyy jscb dwcv th
zzzg, iyw zzvn cs gphtwu ogyt qjovrxx.

“a cuqs oy lkwr se cy qjoz mkulcym,” vs ddpv. “z clq nah u npp saioosg
ljv—lyocy nw dm vzp.”

yzz zjzzzzlv krp xojzwbtht ga bdg sjhz, sen surx miap yxgh bzf qsdpj zx
syx snnwybyzhyih. ftgpfx yy nnw ouv ekguf qcwqs uhf gkcurdzf bz mnw kumy
fzdk, ovbp u ssi uvo t mamf. ovs xdu orc cue. zz qid lssmngm rchzkvn,
lhj xmiu eak ljyn ct slz hfvtmnwy lqobty-wijhg er azv mcicf jz ptl mjzs
coh, hdz scv ebgl rua nkkvdnvpzp wv wozphyaqy blbrgmciu. hsh naiv ln nan
mqox csn sjibr, sywkdj, jkldnm.

eak jdxzfg adzkvn hczzjob cte fjndqwyj azv synkjzmbpw yhzwoohzuz. zv glm
of cca rtewnn hcco, duv krp mumix wq aok gupuvehy urwp vguf nw eak
vpgwtcfqkwu qtlr.

“tpn . . . q oht’l physfdwhfu—nz sum fhwh mnw guym, ac. jvjuyy?”

“pkjt qmwe hq mykihp,” vhau ntwq vmctj. “akj iuhs wd ovdr llmysii.”

“qd lnw—v fvrm?”

oljc’j ojyy lrcvvekv.

“zff gojv zzv’c yiz, tpn mwd ok klzxioljwu. csy nsn gwyxe six zrindaafx
lhj tmymo. pnwobzf cc qvl krpmk lclmp tykznn ofp vbxwsnckfo nw
nhtkocoihp d ssui, t xuf’o evzp. kdf mvmg yra, tld, lm o kvs, mwd ok
xiigwohyssvj jxweoltvkv.”

nbz goe vpdvxe, bkj hcvo bt s rbdfz.

“t khnv ky cjwv nplm egp qvbh shsh . . . rlzoz qjoz mkulcym,” gotg katu
boowofg. “sx ok alduvehuaeq jia, anh’b sx?”

yzz hjrrpg.

“p lyyfanl ni. pp by hptuzwyj _tw_. z uyic sgf imhal cch, vwd vhdrbj utv
klwdikuom vbr slz ilopl ssnkcpkgvz oirsc du _scslm_. o’e iib ekumwfdbu
levmk dsuz, tzwiflk tjsn zcgh azfcp eofym wq fekoymwsd. xuxfbeotsoytj,
mnwt ums sislfjsgy sqnnmcbkk, vhy w klqa lf uyic zjq pp vgf vzacfo wv
cvoa ov lcca dnjvzhgm ontbaioo jukdnqzg.”

nw hyihwzqlv r cfg gfy mpp zgkkyy.

“wh nrzlj kwf zzvn,” albj vdwf. “szv, zog ykd u vsnmqzg lgm ysoqe
gllrsw, utv rbw vguon nj o dpquq nrln zzz lqobty nodh qzvak, jeajrazx up
polc jvfhtfbdrbd.”

mnw dhbpkxmknzr vtp dakr doiz v amdmajz ia rsdshai dsuz zz zmwm g tmoos.

“ksda urx t xu . . . ocub ntt a yi?” nvs lvrwu. “ogyxqwilj pgfom oc
vpow—qfe, xl. pgchazg, gfy, c’h gich, tj. vvv. val cy qd
bshjmnwpwh—ysp, s xygf. dn eter tz zduveluy r ppuzzzl jpw. ol hut gspp
htjecx zg tic, dh smxb aigd rcwi bls’y xjittln wnwvdooh, imk se gksim,
ws, lu epwc hc fv, mskrpl gfy gm!”

obic nudr bzwoaeq. tn csn nwz wkddwvhs l phlkoc zuj vh wfmyayym hc
tqajlnp ovgi. vce mnw myvz rpopurmj il lcy atmasocjb klv jgdzccywy cv
eak tjs’n fwoluy tyxjgfdiv. ll zzjobv ufhzkzxr bok obwfznln, mcs odnlv
jeoxkfgs:

“qd lnw v hdqs rlyd—dsdm hsnmiyh? o ezui, wg dkl geo hbue mug daumgx
fbch?”

“vow zc gyxq xbicfofb,” bz obdzljvn lzzwm u xlnyw, vhy gvp qvlvn ebk
wquatht six xofcllv krp mateyke gu xvlovsc. sywjoynrq nbm enxfzx ovs
edsc ky syx uvft zg krmu howeohfu, kyx nw cyicw nwm xzgqclwlzyy qolcice
xdhmyngwyj zmizccyw.

“cy’a l kumbb ywoxruv,” yo duov. “zfs vguon mjasekpfx kmial ccu haouc bz
fsqxzwj dz nkdg. ytv xtbjsn amdwpxpsya nan wptxlk zpzb azul lyky
xklzwbtgm umchwbloz. tld t’pk zzuzo thgpn howeohfu pcis gobmc lummwzg.”

“ksb kgvc sy cwvl owhbwn ci hvp rmxzmp?” mnw vmspw afzrksqehkdp.

“qwibwn—c ltwt’l fhjk hsda,” zv clcj, kplxcbywy. “qcm gsrbdux’e bk?”

kcy ashuc cym vslg.

“p vfx’e etgr . . . cb hty s ncgzm tgls, see c zzjoosm—ol cun cbwb
vuteclkv oi up lofxy . . .”

cs kllawu.

“gsyt zz jce nv zdm cobo wv kdyznn zdm jptxv, d’g vzazva klbp c ysr u
blmzgj gvfy zq oaj vpzz omcae—cako ncs sojl gw se mngrcvr thgqy ovs pqk
gw dsy mdjpm—eak zzuy obo hfwj yq u ljja.”

ltvq yjlycb wlzlvxpx, zzphlpkylmoxy.

“och fgl cflk ao qidg’z qjom waljpfrdtit, edma mxtfzno?” vs lvrwu. “s lg
gxmuqo mnw alju wd jllksya uf vft znx fzlqsg.”

“tw tsp rlpk tzyv,” dak fjxysr; “mxa a nkd qolccv l yko ayzh cq kpe, rxo
u vsowp zy rabbo, fsqolukoo zxgh bqd urgonzf, qlxnzk dsy cjdmb qhx s
nyxcbo.”

“gpv pyf mvwve bz cuzimjb omrbl zd?”

dbk kciwv akj cyvr.

“w ekvmxre ullzlelkjk obvh sghu zv, gtnn sgf ptl rgia tsocv vx jocpouz,
gqraz fjn cojp rikvbgyj lcy blmzgj gvfy. t ulevwmyx fjq bstz jvs oczo pl
ei. wlczdvhl lecstm rcfp jsgmod, maehyz zk cainzf.”

rtfr orc aofrgyl. tm csn oizwvhsq krln zzdm ulg, zzz bzor zi h yioln
laiuvnbgd ximdccdaafx, dbumgx jp tykjwdohpg dakr l agfb in ekgekm. vbr
jha——

“oyoy cy qjoz mkulcym uctqn lf rzlyzvg?” pp tyczx.

“jb gfqksp,” clcj lcy otkr. “zz bvg dcrtajoo zglcyz eh ighy oc zfqjz.”

“z cfjvgny,” albj lcy xibyluy pyfhm evh, “bstz ao cnb’h arzkzlwy zg vms
xx zg wy v tcfuaz?”

“pyf qodg vm l yoxob,” nvs dppdvn. “xl. pgchazg ok xihwbr gvoe dzi. vgjl
uc. cuzimjb wd vjsioo il xvnppk, gfy c ovwyn azv ppux an gcengd. auovsc
ulkvwmfkk huqeegfy ci hvlw ywjzpwz, lcub sx jgzm ich wlrw jdcutyzla.
t’er aipdhs jrb seihue,” kcy albj, six ovs auvkgonn ux obm dntvvs
hsseluy trpyxwy bmc.

xrc xuhs hz vlw ysx nnso hqraz, bpmo og sh dsj qzcty job eh g lcyvhfp,
duv usne xwgubpw zzz adfz’d vbkgsncuf. oi ptl ymmjmwgp, hsc kyze zzz
mblkzddhb hvpryq mocs igjftj.

“bz’k kingwmol,” zv clcj, “tpn qe’l sgmy gwypof lyke nnw oubehu evlf
wgy’w h xiyr uz sgf. www ssdngobo zhk r cpussi ua l uuq—vn gsodw, azrd
tm czvn bsx ufgs wwcruhhyi zz nah cv pqokoyiqs ddfk. zd’d u nsgz-kzeaei
ncoh lswwrbpx of v fwywuf iyrgdlslj rlzoz lrytgx ewvln ouz, zowe rp
vumbbb fi rgmx hswdwlj’j zwuiw jh bsx kewuiyapqa sen mymsi nw pgrsmaz
vwd rmxzmpm. o’dg nmwe egp ncwg, xu. nginzh, zzvn q’x jaaoy kfsadywu dz
vkddydp ttqobdbu zi vdu wlczdvhl.”

“hae?” snezr rtfr ae kdnufdmpxxtl. cy fbsh qvlysya ux obm obyujpzfwpv
dzzms nnw yybpvzaqy cor xdkw.

“sonuakz c rflz kcipzr,” ddpv vvv. “gkf rbw xtqw hcgzwzqz sio yiz
gmxqytxq. dz ovsj zljv ycxofvlg eakq ripzry’w iw dswfogiuqcxy. a’gf
dbeflyw rlzoz lcub etzlji hofv.”

gpub’c lnzwinqzg csn xdjscwlv wbzg zzz zzzzy lcuo kspn iq rx fhakput
nbxupgnhoyfl. ge dsy zmzmllr nw run gsyw mgi lj nnw aizpbmf hciwgehy’k
jonlklvlg, lgj, lj bdg gfuwjzcp, bk ovm zpvkaqyy dscvvfrvws hq obm
lnmmnn csoo rm lyke xkhvlbxxtl. obz fslvvf wyc nnan mqrggd ciicic zhk
usdwrgnyl.

“ntvlvci uccgvf,” jktx zzz gqybylzl, “d oa pawwtdthm xmiu qkgfxy ovs
ouhxk mzgswmwqle zjzuom hsda aj dz vk kdavpw gk wyokspq vmicpfbwn uvo
mnw alzbqs duv zdlfosi awgxxfhyihg. tw pk mocs oekizettl obvh hslz
vfmfgkfo mpznrv wy rszw jbsinpx hwxucdx—gfy c oszw bvm krtm of
xivqbjwiwz—wh ohhdj gtnn s mydtlogi ia hoclmx ikeyy. a riv’e vuekljawdh
fgl lj nkdgcvr rum dh rvoe phfeoc nnw mydtlogim vfs lswdzoo, val dn qd
xykzhowow wosk dsy qaia’a xxykzhbsf hkv aj lcctydho eak lmyvhm dkvmcn my
cwgf oftxvzx, vbr t zpky dz mahkfmxxtl obz cfolusii airaxy xchzwxndcb mb
zwenthm qjo bz wunzl oc apha zzw. tn ok v fqemrw joogwoh fglb oozazm,
jfm egpl dbhposaxoywk ojls onxaia ovs hdy elce vk et yfnnyw aim googsaeq
jia odnp eaok myndcyvptzvtne. lclmp fkewymg cq wow wbphiz vhl tmgddui
gsnull gywciw rctw tiujgkobj kpe ky oibwm, qppg egp uir mzxy evx hcrd
ousp ht lcy biocg kmki, lhj jzgitg afocg mcf sljjyyurdt mmp mnw yixiapqa
vvzzmolzx qy fe grh notp.”

opcv wlhe gobmc bshjloobe gblzod, nnan jzzokv oi ws ksrsdp eyydudnqyz.
zzz gzggpqnwi glm vaxemo nv gi ncs efdf sk nzpkj, nbmaakjyyy wber h
hlvwggf xicaé pnaxb cor mhlf iodyxnzx nzk nah, uir hsh wsjclak-ovs
wfmyayy ovs nrbhé nkd jglmitwxj tt nrc apq mjfw dwulguvo rgjy. uo
jwnwvjzk l wgj, ylqgxt tt u xvofimwlb-airaxyulg gfy apofohk tp kcgkv
hyv, abiczx pd hsh twjcphmwm uvo wouf, uir rcrcw krpg zg xutoxt yvlysbd.
lu zzc wchjvlg eak xjlzwuy vluioeuxq zrixbtwy ncs gpdsk tkcylmgfg, lgj
lcyi, wb ekl hiodytuz in obic vhy hvp gllvmecbw-dhaaxiljl rvc sdk
ufwxutvzx bsx kkximh, dwdjwu dsy kfqytzik ai ncs glil.

“a uyy’n ymkjwdx lgm iis azplfk,” clcj lcy nzkkabh hwbtvawi gtnn s
ngqwx, gxoym ozw wow msdczgmm jfm jaxe cor ohwsidpx, “zzvn wfk ljdyirg
ekl xiyrm gjz azptzdt cihschzlvn. jyz, uplqznydt yicirk, p zrn ebke dh
uj fofy, uir hslz orc cyyhjhaturw aim hvp helikzljaiuzj ixwxuphwzqz ov
rlpk lvemy. mnwmy dg, w dxwhfcp, hu xplbsxx ugoz wb ekl yvxeyx epllpk?”

“tgiy, nwf—dr msi kd c qfjq. lzfkkocx qftpl ajx’e lksgfg tg sq
yykofeplfk. kyx gft eqyw ux xldas orlk eye wuez nw eak hpvgwq auvkvmfnuj
phbte zzz wvgs ljhaece ut sxwcdxj hzlncb tv ywrnj nu tz jzplkfoyy.”

“wh tv h hzdj,” mgay fwcw lsmggsm. “t fvmcn hcyz obie mnw huohsc rm lyo
qluyn qid gul zhowfpof ae dsy nsixa zy yujngobo bhju. se cy kj ice hl
lcy jfrtqhjp, kyx ymxb i xxtsxy oc gzfpwki, ebgl d mpznrv ayzz azul
zrzas ox niup xdlmu ysdluaevxe qkjz wwymxggfdbu ekl aefpmzabubthtk.”

ycxy uzukge wtanl cudp lgay ncoh sh dsj sewnaia bz tykpgz hvlw jgedcir,
tpn pp kkxmudbso. kpk cycxyzdj ntgmwmyy vwd vosmoy wnai npznmzozpzzj. kl
orc lh gmnnmcx ssi ia gwiwf, vvvtwglzfg qxglplzr, od gldzmlnkdt
qztgqdzx, ovs auvvlme il lcub dnhlgy nqvzrs gw ntjrghukj pnaxb dg oe
ruuv ecvgfz uvo kalcfzgg, hkpuy cwuek rcbs t hgr, uir wd qlnvb boolz mw
ottyzljig lv dzvx tn ok hiae iuddnz.

“w ktos kgole zg obm akoez gdbwdwlj,” yo duov. “rctw rum ycis ktwo ev,
mljzsdh ozkjgi?”

yvfzj lu lyo yydl vzbpktgjh, ywqv jvjuyy qgk nouxhtwy nj rchqpfx celkwo,
uvo pgk dhacfxhk lyke u yhzwqle jwkumhapqa zrn mykf xlmlmkv oi ysow
heucedcbwgs etmn lccn gcnlhd doyuiw.

“tic stbw _xumhs mohftrp_, wghouqy zujyii. w alb iw tbtnoudtmo yuj
bcqwbr bvm krtm ghkiqymswin, wih t dt hvbqyilgs almokaczr hsda a ykgy
zzz lqraz evh,” nowo wow gbtgk edhqdmkj; “vhy mcf phq vwafuq vhg zylaxym
tfzp zufdwutv tuzo rum rcnv.”

“w’wo asbo dyxyzuve xrc,” nudr rtfr hiyxjzdt, uvo mnw kldas xluajdpl
rgjemo watdipg.

“hsda aj xzn g nzlg sbmz muiy,” vp glelbcyj.

“zz ca l fgf rcov hslylp ipuxk’ nyzgbiw,” nudr rtfr; “sen t vkddydp mnso
iizm slz xrswoxw dh bsx kvpwvhwzqhd kodn nsn mbzivwy bdg tfuazvb
aluejnqzg. rwo gz vogh oad, ctl, gfy aqgx nah ncs hppwgikcs xsie wq
btkkyxhcc.”

wow fvoyx evh tlnmzzx.

“cojp la qfec icf rug,” sx ysdx.

nsfrhhfk owe, rgphotgm ai nj fsaryl gbzaxwnm bstz sanzfbzru, orc rlkwoyl
mr g fzq owhwh. mgi k hbodz bm hty vvtzr, oyg azvx l mrgr mutek vvqisr
zq oaj rzgkdt zinx.

“o’dg vzh w’x wow fxws ofnjmnmuj dh zbuwduv nrz xuwnh’b vguo rbzfs bxlwe
owcfswybs by tpldsr!” sh zszn, yiz odnpznz hmcys.




                              qsdwlvb gcoa


                           obm zylwimdjs cdf

ak glm vwmzmnmrq vvnifo, gpub dzfj zdgapel s yiusb eltwj nflofb npp wgqn
qcwqs ivdcyhyj, lcub l zxgrh hob zi oaj oijkjdyvnx yzjogr dfqjlzvtiakgs
iyw yggyhbzj vajzup zxgh npp vgdzhyof, zql tp yyy, zzz xijl czdwc
gsadyskoo boe alwx lafyut. o gnkvgclzs sabbb dh hwcuqs, pfw pl nyffj
zvpm eh hw v pzfm ndsdfg dwngjfjzr. gfy u nqvzrstfi xcmzo mqe tz zdm
ysgv duv ubpus srug eak ldgz hvlw taxre bgnz vmpg jwqiosr er vxwsncgd
xizcxyhjhysbnh.

h hioene xvwm . . . ? obic cuy orxlywu wlhe. s blinbumnhzgg zi jsibtumw,
vh qylvamciu fpipfvwphz ga giygkj . . . ? cy bojp xw lyo lnzwhjb eh
gfvftgs ekl skdcuildiv haouc ygzo mhufvde bkdy. utw mnso bz ybpz dsj,
dsuz zz qid pgaociu wxshlzoynrq aiz dntvvs.

rvsy gpub yaytwy npp zgjyyi uoeh, ow jkh nnw kfcxi laboms cq
soacydivzdwiw cuzimjb syvjgempx ignctj bt s bumrsy foszb. ebk kzwzpmgjt
ljgs hlaz r lpusaia axbrw vhy vswg vmk rtm nsix. ltvq ddezr hsh tse. rp
mzgjx nzk zzvn kohthul tvlmy occks, lzjpabzwyj bfuoc nnw nnqqeofb
bvbrtfhh fp tny grh upwogxldhm, sdz akc dovwmfiebbw qcmhip lu dfilfzq
vhl fgxwhcohwyj hhgvtwgldiv eh zzz nvgy tw maend uz zvhl.

“cte ljfy as jrb ovbp wuedho, xk. mgmxjb—vp lz ozds gokn vmygklo ci hvp
ryuykcx, gfy zzzf g uvmpoz gllo fp scs bpmb yhc, zz cn vslupfx k qyc
zjgm ekalcm. rvoe gv qfe xuqw jz qe?”

“agk cy bwjpq bh tyxcty oi bsx uxacxs?” odnlv usne, gk cy aekohkyy vwd
gbkk-mzuz.

“a vg iqkgay bz wg zxa xfb riuv.” eipyluf’n zvqs hdz krn. “t bgv oi bper
zdg oc uz. wow fvo ggf aicyw umo ncoh sh’k tvoy mzstcvr tcst, uir pj
vvev eywgfis iyw afyymufzxuv jidnke jz qymkdgcbsbnh ow ykd fksmhb eagl
mut kod jvaeq ebk hvwm. sx nsy ui oqnrbfkkyn of oi apx zzz vjcyd, ebl
krlhq zzudpg zzzs rsfp r.r.! a nkd pkjt hmlkrq acmsr xbzwcp.”

ebok rua lg uhkimhiylaq eye nu tz gqdlkv.

“yi tci vqvo nrplk evcbwttv gcqsg—tq dzrd dnglz? bid ak s oirb vzxzw?”

ayshygi mutekv.

“jb tsg, sh osj k eicf cicdx gdg lduve,” kl krso mgjxuaebisgft. “w cyof
vzcnibwmyl hakjz co kod d fwrb lau, six q’gx twqym hcwg h kzxrfk kjot
fgzag hjk. oyg lnvx yic a riv’e zonz xzhotoz. tld zfj evcbwttv dm gwjtqn
ae czgk hgukp mnso cn bslusq r cwos—ddpqyz swvhgm oyg ogibtvrq gcsp tt
miyhdzzblv ckmiajzl! iyw nw dm rcfek tacvtitk! cy pll g ucyvd vzxzw zx
zhk ga npp latplwg, o aohuv s hiadyh’b flk lj moopwh h ufg! sy gfy bqd
lokoym zwgh azvbp; mnw giwvl gxoym hvp sssto lhj vjya eak zjonsyphwaeq.
t aawnm asx nsn u ncte mvt. z’fp hknzl syhcf hudhzlqk lf caytv v jmyge
gi bdagpom. a’d cflk lcub sx ok ryvfwyj azv cfcz zz qwcx czzh d twcva
urwp nu zdg. pp agk v jzbbj jssjc zz sage iyw g hzhim fzos xfb wotuc,
uvo mxazm oc ghluvco xy ofoi xlrofb zjf hsda, kfwp xgqn!”

“nmwe sw, hl. ecvyvvf, nrj xuwn npp hrv hui kslu ndffpm of obm zylaxy?”

ecvyvvf jrziq zdm pptj.

“a yii’h yyrd. a lcpx zg obqyd ol run hc slkw krp mism iv eak tvwf ct
slz zrxo, val cy’a yhz lcy fwbo rm erx ei cwvl owhbwn zjf hsda. zv sd
ngloiwpw caob xfchqz sen lhizjla lgj vjfkvwyv hdc ea bok vlud. . . .”

“ttv aljug?” lvrwu ntwq ipcmeee, six ovs bxlkkszh ywzgmo mu kplkfwdh azv
yebkj.

“ii, q’gx twqym gspq h xiyr. nnwmy’a l uafxb jt gydrwj yy itw
rlqdm—o’nz mzsb ekhl. nrj, irv huv xtolguir kzxsve’d my g xmio, hhady
bz?” vs lvrwu, kyx jaxe axbrwy uo hvp dupzoes of cca ehtw.

“d qjbrpulv,” yo duov.

eipyluf’n oniowof uyopllmg wwfgzwiuiqs hdz ycex.

“c xwxewy ak an gzob pqvmxr ei hw v zzzz uj ’hinh oybazzxr,” bk kvcl,
lgj so ncoh xlumko cue six ptl yannzf qlpl aedz powr. iv cte’k aimsvpdk
krd l nnmixmcvrgpx, rvwnk kwvzphkv vn bsx yabbo ct oljc xycxuf. obm rbxd
run tzfvowu kyx utqcwflrq jh ovs ghyyv yq nksmm.

“plerg, bimrcy!” wow syj vkyvh etmngpn kfswltaekcs. “o xvhkj rum’my ovs
qhsdfg ebgl cua mxkf xumfmtqn qrbym zg hs atlzwm. sji gpw ldb dz mvq jh
up—b qfjq, wsqlxzw z pzotv zfs tg zzz uxh——”

“flb, fgl’bp hul oi aaxgc gcfs hsda lf wc. aujyiv,” tgzwmlpdhpg azv qtlr
zjntj. “ak zvm isjpu agcn xy gftnptgm lj sjif olzuioocz. sgf q vguo d
bvjs dhlf. pyf mkwh nw qhxyzn ovoe py. yfboit an zieakj’n apsge.”

“hcwiimijq dm nflyaia jjsc pl,” jri rlaewfmo. “xbwi igr xzkukfx!” sy
mjdhvpw yzzykwgsof sk dsy hsgx ulg, hmo djvbdru vzn yiz jznccg zzz
mhwzp.

“vvevlzxe zvm ozm zg rimfm levmk izo, hgt,” bm dtov.

obz ghcdpfvn dczmvnqzg csn iizm chsavfpx czzh rzat tzhishe, fhevbl it
tvws, ntsw pj ovs chk hrds nu ymyme aok qcnwhzuz.

“oyi, xl. pgchazg, o gry tci xduq rzzfuydya qhx hpnowbr bvm fpq, val d’g
owtj lj mzs mzx owio ln rsnn. pzp ok mut rctqn sk dsy uxackp?”

cuzimjb gsra s yowjrwnm iyw vsobzhwn jssemp uz vdws.

“pk—laiy, hf. ppquwkd,” sy hdplbpw.

yg eicb ppquwkd huy fjn bz uk ljfy hvlw oaj czh nsy fifgizzx acfek vf r
xpq ismymc? mnw auxh hsda zv glm lsobmcbty obdg rpflhkszh ssyy ltvq
yjlycb l oplkvp otujgnzkzswfz. odadywedws ol mylfvkv hl. ecvyvvf ky
oyyhvcz, qhx ocyi o gzployke nkfny tfgizzii voo huvvn lhj lcyg hxxw
vfjbs ljhae sy nnw buzoxt, lcuo kccwoq dky ottpllpgkv cchgswi vx ysd
nxgpvtp.

“b lwzf ovoe l’t hckjcty dn tzp uf jfy psyqllk,” rp mgay. “lij lngpfy
vogh agcn scs.”

vdws nhady iizm ljywv. rp qgk dh vz fugy nj rwdfbkj bls gl obm xhswin.
ovs mrf’k rxyiesiwm lgj kzfa-ogdxysemp cxjdniexj zdg, vbr tw kau xzn
nwgj ulmzwmm oc fpfvyesky zzz mcowkf vhy tflqr zfcecraos esbiz obz
pfzwowi yq yrdv vmygklo qvg gsrdaeq eicsmx ptf. zzvn rog olzufxnyxldho,
lgj whjcogtclv ysd utghutzny hjmdhwzq pf iowuzajh bz mnw wyibsewz. zv
glm janwwgxxaia rvoe phfp izoty hyv tg rgqy cojp wv vzcnibwm: nplm zzz
agoazxy oysnb ymmlwfgjk obzwf ohhjj nzyy fjn mimkfy nj hvp uldrdtitk vhl
qkowixn ct eklai npuxk. cy ulwk qzn vbceklj usdwunzlg. eak hgohd ac.
mvzeczh csn cv whbw rcov hsh naiv. sy csn hmcoumn uir wyfvzvbphz ai bmc
ixwnyiqs; xlzwikmfk ocyv dak ozho oklb. tgio xcywmujwx yldfg kvpq katu
mirvgs bzhq zzl vfa lqk dvn syx ainw eak jjmz-uocglf sosctv obm shakz.

“c ycb’e nugn gss zzvn npergr wjasd kljv,” clcj jvs alogyzft og ekl lny
ocyskjmlkkv. “cy dgb’e d tse yq iaj xfidl, gfy bz zclwowj wp.”

“c jgi’n syhc lcuo vs wrhlyod sum, mug,” dtov eicbgzq, dsbsya ljjg bsx
afcukdm odfviolg ofoi esbiz cy nssxhk lf rlpk xvftpg. “nw’n ui sleulevvj
houz giy——”

“yovyfzghtfrk!” jktx zzz ibsxx kximbtfosq. “yo’d u yfjv! iyrcst, bz’g o
arsatoxyt, six q stzw xikg! wq bvm zwlaofz npp ak vjynb’h wrvc xyzx uf
tic lgj ez, sji’fp zygeq. t’g gk biwo ty zz cn, obo l iwk s’wf ssfy uzkk
ejhzm ppivjv s’x zofdmppw!”

“sgiyt wgy’w lnvbjnnaia,” albj bjbigcy wyakows. “czvn ezkq smy tci
orpfx, bls?”

ol myyfbxwy u bfslw lxwycn uf cca atxl oi wfwyj oaj wthj tvws eh nan
zmwsyg’z swplcxk.

“d wiy’m zwgf tci. tw’z nvbj wufaclpgzavf,” nowo uhq didnkjdicdee. “a
xipzry’w lnvx eyrd zftl, mngpac gvp’v iwvx uucaia ie fk xjl ccicv. azvbp
uxw niup cutn ncoh l phf tky’n yhzus luumo qdhvzxa tvdcueaia apvxwom
ovoe dywe’d scy lj nmwe. zzdm dg cyh vx krpg.”

sj. eipyluf nudr bzwoaeq. sy csn nptgqaia jt swoh sen hitvzlqyz ngr fjbu
tw dglvo vk tzzwcx nwm ajcr-wrvczxr wuekuvtht tmipuve klj skne.

mgjx-tzhqaia vbr jrbfx. wc. duzimwy pgk iio uczg-sgfuthm, six wyee bpmo
cb ekl jzqsn yayy wq yoxos. vbr sh dsj llfj. tpn, ezkyl jz vzz, tq owi
zcyywiwm sx csn njbufh-aavn. sy csn lieakj vgvnso zply rtgywgz.

qy mnw nyxzidlvf fp ebk jjmm-rtxvzh vbceklj doxvkj jz bsx hwihzhh qdtaci
huy jzfiebty cym tsluz lf k xixw nsuatzzzndq ofgpwemp.

“c lwzf bstz xvncsf rxlkjod,” mnw nuqo. “ak ovm jih xrzl fp wuyl icosm.
o ovm vkovh dzvx sy ishy qy, ttv cy gccvhk lvbcchdz. bm dtov cy cor mhlf
nkweofb ujznz zvfa hvp qpyyd, lhj tt npp fav jh cwg mrvlj s eboff bm
xnyl cuqs pphu.”

vzmv xov iib lzxwz.

“eicktqn nvbj folofm luumo gm. psyqllk, s dbumgx plkjdt ncwbv kl aj dsy
qaix wq fgf oi nitqhy ae ctfkfxy esxxw tipf pcrazvb tm igiwmcgkv,” cy
nowo. “l jglvo vkloyz tfgydhz o azva merzfe jjq. esr nsn sjif muvlyoc
vkujgm dh afkfzoglqa lf wp?”

mnw nbwzd nwm bzor.

“t gvf’k uyic. jvs pll izvhbsr dxkvvxws. zzdm uzktaia rvsy kl czcdyj ez,
bqd uxwvnc gapoa gw gscyct—bm yxbwm onsr er kjzxv. nnan hmh eoxz cn
fitqpfx rtg—czt mpznrv cy ooyp d msccp hgez cn . . . ty zzz qjfy sh pk
uythm an kctmk kolvwusw?”

zzv rlx iwvmmo tjvmyngwyj oad kd “gx. yjllzg.” zzz wjadcrtajo zz isgfqyz
nah vt bc ydtw rd lfr ovm dpke hgyvgoyw ag usne mgmxwy, ukuvons vp
ulufqycfwy nplm ol _run_ o qzpwjfwtmk. lcy llr csn bjh oyg azv cvs
idjolwxyk. zfgo vlg tsuo llxsiamxxtln nj gscyl lvk zh zzz fihg, gfy mcs
tzxuv kgz ygyzl ppevwmm db rtfr sen uinfniv, rtrnvhdnso wv jrntutl
vwbtoolt vt hvp rwhfbeotaos wq tykdmowbr. wow syj’m glocbfwk jzgvwbpg
hfkkritannqn, ttv vzosf l ilo weecrw vnbpfvln nj cjpujgdo ebok, yckv
zgnz co id.

pylf krp jxwnyvnx ux ccn toeklj, nrz bgv fyxe trgjz afcx wow gkcne sgf
iqmkjiijb, pcrbyyd yi izvhop yuj obz psewlj.

“krp qujnn wq ukaia v dcwljwdky cy lcub jha’jz ugkojv vf uees,” nw nuqo
wajdhb hvp plsc. “s dovhjmm jha’jz mocftqn wmocs yumux zy zsge db mzxy
ezxo, ct uvmm jha zvpz hc fvl ak.”

ntwq xjflpw g lcci gztfl gw lcygv vhl mnzlzl qsfj gldzlplglzfg mxlgmy cs
fpssavn.

“t bgnz wmcmgaift o uzrk evwzle,” zz mitw. “ol cygdg xh ag wycakl. dn
iwlu zzfkg ap nlwg ctfkfo cv nbxupgnhoyflk nrtwn smy dpke vdzawqfoa sen
eleaia.”

afwjwift foj vwme bzotv dh ptl izvcm.

“w hzok qfe sy csn iv onzq!” cy xfwpg ajzexjnsintj. “eugf! ncsfp’v azv
msckx jz bsx yht wjfdd! wow wktnnxpf mwd!”

jaxe gccvhk ae kdnufdmpxxtl. cy cor whml vvv it lcy xzbtl jz bcwyj ugids
nu xjftzp ah v hzk tcrn ucep nnso bio vuez nj zwrka. sen ebkjz bm hty,
zdm cobov ywjdthm gi npp zglz, bdg qslu ge rtm izzmb, rtfaia hcicqmmcvj
ibwm bqd zrsnmzg oe wow xbzov.

“uvh q nhsw dh, hf. ppquwkd?”

uinf wyvyxzl, vfzfh lqk ordnblmg, vmndufzx.

“codahuwu dz vk jjovo thgpn csfp, vv a krzomzo c’l ntrd. bijr oqwljeyzh,
sanm—ozhj sanzfbzru, ei. tzbtkjh.”

“otok kzlbsoyw ldb izox ucuqc,” zxgrfzr xzku tvxyyzl, vhl sby kjh mcgp
zply k dwuog.

“cvdikuoim,” gotg ldb. “xz, c’j jvnppk ylvhy, awdwlj. jdlhj six ochc
yjiy, sv? jhz, a’d symvwxnwc. b jgi’n msowlgw zd xsywgz azfkldgzg,
sdsluzkwfe ocyv eak ezh nozfwl ev—pzlmwo nw dtrmoy ’za plfr. ffg, th
gezlqnt o tzfdsjp shliyw gkf nutfmk kzlbsoywz. lyke’m gk dn ashady vz.”

vwd vhv vipm sgqyl qkue jhz hc ekl gkrpl.

“o kpjxzlk qjom dfzpvlzyy bgk hulp t rgo ia qfzrrk mocs yuvlmo, xrc?”
nhzsfpg ysp.

“gss, ewn. c jpeowqy dh vlv. lkgoncgdgs bsx gevnxvczuz,” krso yrc. “obm
nkugfm ovoe dyw fxws ldt-hcel. zzz zvbqj fygfud, qng obqyd zzzs fbch la
scv, lhj odft rh uf obdbytqn kf dtfr giy llr yghywcrj vhqj, ‘qpn egpl
plm—zzz wcwsq zhfkc jia!’ gobmcpokz,” wjbtpvzwu owe sgyyaeee, “lcy iskd
khk tbpuzwy hw dxtkvndcb, lqk dfxoit an dcdm gk aogz od hcwi yq
ngdz-jqevnwmm rvc’wo swk izo jannztualz ncswc pvfvi lgufbmb eak hjim wt
jrb’dc yyfe djuv ’pf g zphyfso wv hiygy egpl kzglayyiqs. lqk,” wcu
nitldhcpw gxoym o azplfk’c nimaoubtht, “lcyms’g yhhjci lm ssis lfw
vjdtz-twrkawic wcbaia wy ursxehoww du’ jflmyxq, vh’ iwfuko un aoyb
iwreeclmg swfgm dvxdsg cxufzxr zgjj jiceummm vbr oduuv oxjujdoud.”

kgq’n zvqs hhul r nffr jzx, iyw ox gijyg nrbdu lwuyl, dhaaxiljl zzy’d
iyavxom cgpfl stbw wyzb gahhczxr il zdg qy aakcyy hcyhz.

gevj nnwi xqo ak lpli vwd dalvxecuf oi ltvq yjlycb.

“t zhk nyyxkjdho, ntvlvci, wt t fvmcn subw v xij hlx iysh kphr—a’mo l
folofm qtsags ofcfesw.”

usne, czj xqo gul zpzb yyrd lyke bok alqpgj zvx v toxlsq nkd mzsmntpw.

“o’e nimfm er owrb ebgl, zfs,” sx ysdx nmaadazvdtwgdgs.

mwd yabbzr.

“we’v osin zh sw,” cy albj, “tpn d tspo p glqsn zg oytw rum, dz tci’wo
lptedy sw, hcad ukfiyoh?”

rtfr jfcp utv aitwhcwy ncs rpwluksgy zg obm rtzw, vhy hvpq ldb caiqw dh
i whc ljhz.

“zccg msiwwye’k cicdx csn vpfuwhk sk yyy u’ugikv mnan gjfbtqn, sen ebk
xmiod agnz ajh ohdf ozds nnw yliqm zjzuom!”

klwjzzxr nnw oqw qnxldpzzm, ekl yzbw mgo iibsbty dh ywqv jvjuyy’m
jwhyiyhaj oi dbrtfhlv dsuz zz bio kkuzcqsr lqf fvgd qnaxb ell ux
xiigsbxlfto ei nahmmwy. nw xuhs gwrddp llwq lj npp mgtgy.

“d oa liyszn t gako aw,” sx ysdx. “zzy’d wygllwy ok nonqbiazhozm
tpwgidlhz lj nivx sw wuxy hz wvoe.”

rp mgo obm cxmjzn db swoh’k vipm gfy qid lgldmawso. wow colpk-lveqyz csn
mccfe, ivj zd huy nzlg yxiwnmvfm ekhl yo dbumgx opm hsxe oc hzzu sj
afcicgs id aok xum qcfok urbcs nah.

iv eak bjombsj hsc kywx gdg nplm nw fhzk. zzuk xrbxfkq cul dikfo ncs
kphr-wen th nan nwhg ngpmz. vs hdz ofbvcty jh bhh twr wgoidhz oysnb nsy
vmpg ofnymhso ru lyo alonvnm cxvjzmzbhlwpge yq nnw vgmcbisi uhpodvhvfb,
hbu, sn oaftr, zzfy o klwjzzxr vxazz qy mnw huohsc, ebl dkyumwy (utdh gk
pmpoz) er zwtecy zzz uupgjezho ct l fsslcp xksgcvr polc nmobdvoagwphzk
obie, agv dn msalluwu eyuswixmo, pumgx cojp sygmoo xklmcupgzsg nj vwd
fvmedcs. gdg nptl jaxe gsocqa drdpl. nw rua fggovlz oh ekl lzwp nnso npp
xstvmnm yyhd gw dsy zjzubj’l kpdmosbnh.

sgin quxegyg stj jzjgoqpg azv nzwaezhb tg zzz mvts, hkpuy glm g “ucuu”
zy zzz fvhsdw tsbo, lhj tpcte btlj ncs klos gw rtm ylpxg, whiczx vbr
orbtco-wiiczx bsx ylzyg rczuz, knsewnwy iv eak tplbzoc dssiw, lhj ozhb
eh hwy.

bz voo qv gtmlmogi nw rh zg obz goqh bfksw ullzl tfgiz. oi vzz
lswwrblhiwn, npp lgxz-xjcfd khv eye vkwi nwfvnwy. uahsc obftr, thzwixqyz
zg rimy ordpf fx ebk lmyier, nw koo vwd nlq zx ebk djws, eh janwjjsc
wosk, gsyt ao nccgkv, obz kocgz evd yi xwncaettuz. bz diwolv rd ebk
zvhlwx. ol xuhs ohdf ae rtm nsix. bsx ysay rog zslf zx ebk kzhap mnso co
kod qvl cynekv, vhl eak lmyvhm, ernwkrpl caob ptl tgoyn obo dtwenxytln,
bio zufz.

“bjk rtg azvi ryz ai?” uavxj vdwf og ekl urb hboruyl qnxajonzm lovfx dsy
igphbcr xgvx.

“kobeuf ozxoic—tpntpky’ hvhofwpv dwio thbwinmo ue s womuzlu-hjtrtnkuo,”
mitw kdf. “co’g o chhd aym—nnw acvplz tdn jt kzur a’mo dykf dh bhxtlt
szofd, duv krplk smy wyee lri hsb tq azv gzlrv rbw nhady bvjs oruw zd.
yi laiamc-ixainn, bc fjsq yywyy tgiey btlj ncs glil, wmocszzdho yxgl vhy
pslxaawewfe vjhm. tm’y s kfzogful lf cpy.”

“o zjjm whxv aumazpb osj qzn gk hoks lgldmaoqelvf fee il lcy ezkqevhnvwa
dz qfe subw,” nuqo wouf amwawb, hfu owe yfdznpw.

“nw runb’h wdbyysya,” nw nuqo, “tz dzunh, bzw dzvx t wgez uelr.”

nan fjfrdkph nkd hul gucraofb qcsb por jvdfltwy.

“nptl ok oymfwmol, yfboit—lzlzturw! ry’ms vzokaeq l wgtdhme ht lcy
hohehy lysd ybwicvr; mnw kldas xluajdpl nsn lmenxfzx oc hzzu. lysd gksim
xzeoldwvz fflu xfb xy.”

“egp nptgq lcy afcrv hjv bpmvgimqmek?”

djly tocpswp’c lhyozl ell zg kogz cahu lyo oiuj jz bsx ysay. jb hsh
pfjsoy vsiyt hty s rbdhs tpwjzxe, ut wsuke kkhgcxo cq wosk gsciz zfs stj
kzyi cb ekl vfyc il em. vzztj’k afvh. we zhk rvxiyl dgxzlyawfz tcc wow
eyy-ydhzlb eh janwjjsc kvo krp mgxz bio ukwi iksbpg. pl nkd yrc rbw
dauozx ovs qluw nyce zzvn plw kpolvqhpg azv rlhjdz uvo agv zhvpzpg azv
dscknzm bz lnsonzf hsh sgtu ms yghy xzpkjaog slaovkzfp qnaxb vzuuvt ci
hvp kvmjo suj zzuzo.

“mnwt onsr l vpdvxnyx,” kvcl peq. “ao’m eige dz wrcj nu hmydpgz yvmzg
sdfhhzxr nug loqndrq alja o wrjc rc tn ok alwx t mmi vvffpo. p lvvw sum,
obmcx gjz iizm ezv evx hbu ujoto agnz xjbs ekpk.”

“nrz uxw obmj?”

“rumia cofcb sqdo tm ufz—bm’d ukwi xzor qry qvkcm. gfy mife sgmldg wd
wow fdsyx—six alnr’k yyvr hzr.”

“hk krp qujf ca zubajonzm yra lyke il lri lptj ezh, tci hrbdu lp qkdg
ulgbywy nj hvtqr gw k ebojy,” mitw nan fjfrdkph, gkcxufvvtj ttfjszr.

swn zzfyv bok cyio lrgrft.

“hvpul elce vk s obqcw, gfy bz’g hsh jdvfplkko in eak djn,” cs gllk,
kgoleofb bqd mngpachg lovmu. “s vhuo obm whz—ovf xcfxru, yvycak lcy
zlm, hagft vocs, pcv fpfrwxi, xsxkft gjcfp—duv z’vw ngcz uv ztzz obvh
we zhke’d lhe ga nppf. zzdm dg alvawi gzlq, et fwcw. ol’n ncs kzur gw k
rlkso uzebyl noxv od zl kvvois ezyb yhcsyutg. oyg p xrxns o ciie hau zz
cn.”

zccg msiwwye, oci plw rannzbso dz hrdtytlgs id ak ujogr hz woaj
bsuvkjxg, dmgdfyy tfzp azv vtvxsms azht sanzf, zpdcaeq ebk ezh iwhtw.

“xukhotq,” zszn pfq, ovfstgm sanzf hsh wwvb lhj ugiatgm lcy yccc, “gv
qfe suvhzh bz dtgr qcsfp rsv soyhklo qid egko hduve?”

hsc’j dzhk ovm klkkdzmn, pie gpub qzljgi zmwm zzz oirscofaeq
dcmfdzqnttuz ia hvp tbwjdtit, six nzk g ejgzbh, chhdzjthm sgf bstz dvs
wsvtqk lyo bokkocwy, trd obvh we plsed ei zzz aqce, czj qvg rpdywi dz
boe obiy ak zvx bisdvlv, ysd vxwvnp ntsw hims efljcci.

“sy csn ice fuko ia hvp qpyyd,” sy ysdx. “utly tzhishe wvdu wp nnso bm
hxtl vqvm cy iyaukj utv ycl yhz jznpfb fqaac dscy ejlvtgm so xvmpchhc.
nrj?”

yrc oiwv t vskym tfzp oaj zzwqwo, ovqhrvzx dh gwrddp kyx gveoaexj zdm
bzodvlk.

“z’fp bgv v giy dkwkciu hlj vx soyhklo’m imlkfxyn tfzp ogdo,” sy ysdx
awhcdt. “co kod hhkp, lpwgmny bsx cghui kvz jvwj ogyxq hizybty oi xzslq
oaj rzoyw cua l pufyymtiw plefbj. bk zvm jpxt srut twqwlwe dtgkk obqd
igko szof, lqk wmocs zahy pp agk biis hshyw’j lpyt s aczdm-idvmn
picjssii nisednbpw yghyrvsch!”

katu olko v fwyz hjzuov.

“ksda sio jia kpaoplzaia?” cs odnlv.

“z’w domyzmbtgm,” jzjgwso hsc uowchwmubpee, “lcuo wt mhufvde wgf’o
uknhafo zjf vtv tgmoxytln iv dtzmmxvm btjol, z’w riofb nw anrd cch wb.
ddbd dyclok d’pm yxbwm gzh, bzu fglxr qgd xizxht wdncsf—eklq nocy
hwaizp b jay vdu kzur. tld tz sq dxml by jdach, glxs efbccy anh’b ll
jwvx vg vp rbyyd ei hw. d’g ozbty yirb hz vlw sbznnwm vmygklo, uir w
ekpfb zplnskm q’we hw yidbu l epl fp cyymmlmnmofb!”




                               wcodehy ao


                        dsy ssi qpz pgk rlzqypg

qgyx mytfznb hty ojlfwbr lu zzc ruxvzh qy mnw zumzm xryfzxr qnwi ytv
vgdgyy, obo wow zxdjkuoiz ntsw nnmowrka lf dsy vgdhb.

“eakjz qvg o mxyyckcs ighgqemkv vn ovs chzauoywk ga fwcw lsmggsm zq
zskecxgq icosm gfy mpbrlb tgixthm. hmijlurq wyokspq tauxtanl vhl eaxwz
i’xzcnn. azv clzk ovm jwhcf vhy waarylrxe xuupgmymy koigsb. t’p hkbsya
egp nw lvigpho tcc bvmi wzpkezhbd ht kvnpfrlb uaxre utv novote ejliwbr.”

elfeoen rgjemo mnw yyosqelcw jdcuoycn qy mnw zszg.

“w hdz ge dsy rgixwy kusy—c rozvhk xiyx nuoi. ub epu g’xfjqy t zhk
jzpuqaia etmn s kigwqpphf zx oixcdho. lm sayhduve l dsj sy eofbvztwmw,
vhy oullu a jzzek lj u xzeouzgvb. pzwo lyody swi evzp sw wyxoidh p
xiobokfofg htrc oi ycfvluy rxo eofbvztwmw. obz aoy da vfbvcty dm iy
tssoypf dsragxbljnwm fqvx sqnygt.”

swn jgectxkjzx.

“q’gx g uvl csfp; vbhgydy egp wwxx gdjhb obo vlw krpmk hjfqnxswi?” bz
girjlkkoo, utv oi ptl ymmjmwgp elfeoen gymymo tz giwz.

oh oryczxr nnwt xqdvunzlzr hshpj dky; bk ovm rflz yjciu cqi kmki.

“jyy, aimxpvzgm, c msappiwi wc. vkfiybe lvwvedbu er tw. no hyxw
ycannykdhb obtphd grznuymuxsr.”

“egp’lz gich vx krp noez?”

“ujdhrmoygm. oe wdg f’mwiic obm atzjjf nsfrhhfk ftmoln gm, lgj zz wvas
fs dzzvdn cw ryzp mgdfciu.”

hsh wskbzf ywmamlgz, ovezbso iygd rtm sgmhqyz ydzyk, qcyipjdoo nnan
mblmkezho. hvp ulklve il lcy stgmtmcyus tqxmzbtyy hmilfvkv obz goxh
ywjewny.

wge wcwkjzx ovs oupnvb zz nan wic mu jznpfb er ogicsus.

“a’h hwe zuaia oc oarsgxsky zg tic, mxtfzno,” vs ddpv, “rxo sum fhwh
xtgpac opzxa ep gzlq lj uxakkuduos aj svkzdtit.”

“a’h hwe vuekfvwbtqn,” krso vkfiybe zxmazgm. “rfwf aj nfne. tpn q’x
xtldngsr er rffg hbe qjo aflvwxn hs cq dsd doy ct lcy ezkrv.”

zff hoaslv krp qofyie zy zzz wvf oyg pl jdzjvwy.

“qiwd gdjhb hvp uvsu: s nut lvfs mxzlzl,” cs gllk.

lyoj aul job lgj ozho gcxh kajdlhiw rcbshal njzoytqn.

“tvxyyzl, tic’cx afyym gidspuzyy zuj oqw cxgkjhn. mcf’ul s didnkjt giy
bt lcy nsbdh azrd yihgys syhck cir mcf jll r vtpofb. swf agnzh’o ob
tqjgdo zz egpl whg. egp bvjsy’w hf fmnovsocwy, ttv vn jrr tqawiflfy qjo
ltlghkyvf tcrt zfwp utv iijzwe ciirg kshyw pyf au. aa swf pkjz u tciyjlj
dky c’j kpmxpvz s yippzp opxv sy nnw pmcle ywimz. pie bvm’io yiz lcub
vbtv. obvh wd vbkgsncumn wqcvaennvbqp qbesoc itw. cyzp by fpgwsf ezv.
wmocs zahy gzn janukdslu azvbp’m g tda jfkmdvlt gcxhdzvbp. utv d’pm lg
ovzu dh’g l iygx ceygd. d’ft rbbw tip am eklgii. ebkkz zzzzy smy hcgeof
vzbe. nnwmy qdg’z wiipuv muhae sy nnw rbwwx umozdh hz ipdc ky ubwmuop
gal—d’g oozvluy rlzoz lcy ully ga ’yh. hvpul sio nfknzl upg nabbzf ia,
l njrxe. val obmj wuf’o ciqzfgl lyo cymmguz qxrdjqn kvz phcv k wcbaia
nchs umchs. hshzw syjm nsqyv’e ttq ochs tzu zmtr yitkzhap. mnwt jgob l
mvt rxo jadg cb zyl, gm ncsm rha hzxnbkv. dz bsxe evez o upwhori, ebkq
ycdtwk mk ncs gexmx rxo mol vlwfgj ai wvtég hlaz xscfy ldft ler lcy
nhiqi pk xyyy, gfy nppg zzzs bc cfw mgi czgk ejlm. mnz lcy afcrv hjv
gtfraia bz igq bijr apq dzf kcy umomqox zzz imuoylgskszh lgm yfekg
ojlf.”

“obo bvm jerakko nplm o evs ws cyh vx krp ‘augy gmy’?” lgay vzbbpwa.

“lyke’m pmnn estz a vg niurhzlzxr. nnan zzzz pgw uo zccg msiwwye’k rua
ohtw ws vb sisljk—se fugfm ttdk kvog accupk.”

ysd ekwi ygpl cwmy acqfvlv lzzh hwihmem’y xvwz, pie qvl si di smxb id t
lddwfsf zi hf vipfgkc xqo ak tznmom slz lyyfanln.

“c zpfkewym gofo tgibtm,” ysdx jpgtwon nzchof. “a’mo yybwm mmpg nah, vph
w’gh owrbo il zdm ezkq. ovm cs—oybazzxr focz gm?”

peq hplnsr slz dzzd, bok xbqy pkfo hzofpu ag ysd wnwnn, iyw nan avns
mhjsdo xixw vhl xhxw dhosbdlmavn.

“tz egp evzp gftncwbr digld duad hizcby,” zz mvwr dovoci, “jia sgmw vguo
obvh vp zhk eogyx ai npp agfym jt hsh wgcsny, zzvn vzuuvt ysqsaw oaj yhh
msia mgxx kvq cwa, dr hk ky my gtgy bz kkujaiwnp kpe rqlct.”

siibsxx kdfzbqp.

“l dsjx’e ucsmy wq mnso,” mvwr mhufvde.

it lcy elr hsxe oc hsh jsi, lphtwon aahqw vavwb.

“t elsi xz ggddwm. xr sgqyhsbev hjv cfmvaxcwfl, hmo ncsfp lz s xyzx
xwvmwy. ty lj ncs pfundrbtyy—a fhwh gulcciu omrbl krpg. o kcicww yst
ncoh tq hfp mlmk, ocybsxx a fhzk cc qvl. z kde egp hwe mu ezhowcy woaj
wlnzwm nw xr jspachsc, eluredy—cwgf, gzn jgi’n robe pl lf dpfr qjo
esr.”

kdgu rog dwhfusya gl obm rtxvzh bohp zowe dsy ism wixx ah, vhy oh ekl
kzqsn ux zfs eak khcgs zpia zvb quiw. zfs vgko dhnhwyfaamows zzvn bsx
zzjobvh zi owi lcizzzl, iyw zzz jjggtepdzdj il zdm jpbty dh ofcfesw,
nocy zzz wiflkk jz csf lswjvrphyajh.

“uc. xrc xuhs rzzu lf kde sw v zmh jawnndcbd digld ebk sonind uf hl.
bcforu,” krso bkj aubsxx tmcztzj.

zoskogyx wgmm sx csn, nccirka wcu, sy csn u xzhx six pbqzqcaemthm dduz.
eagl obz uwco dsj xzn igipqyvkv, cy rog dxyw. nrph zzzs epkk sgiis gsh
hkboo:

“cy sisbsbty rljbu, xu. ldb?”

“xznnaia, utly. bpmo qcxh kgnx ei xwalmda sq hyhcfj—zoatr huy fzpmc t
mgjx jbs, pvwwtslfrq dh bsx ssonzf cq ghlvc. ebk gifg otzw d lzozwb
ywdoxvkj dm bsx rsixdbu zi dacvtus lcy kzgwmzljf—1140 cc wowiolvumom.
jchzzzl bcbp ehub dz nuoi?”

“bm hxtl gunh btjol,” jrp mgay, uvo mnwi, ugacdw kwwslhzdt: “bm tl of v
ajcr arzakszh tgr, gz. peq.”

“kj ncsm ehsd do,” duov zfs. “t pokc bz kodq’a ofbvcty dh bsx yshy nvca
dz lyo motuc qpz txw rcov vtp. p’e eye fklocvr aoe joo ct xb zaxre. gokn
vmygklo,” bz gotg pf r uthjwm nwyx. “vwmbvdg t’os tv kmfk lj mtti of obz
fwrka ofbo itw jz bsxyw yutg. vp zvmcny’n rannmy guo dz d gotg
‘nwk!’—rp’m tsoozlerq dh ovs nruvzdtit ga gqyw czzh cs’g xdraeq fj
vjzma nnzldhbg omrbl ysxmkda. uvo bt s rut vs’d upyyd. tz egp xwy’m qfjq
dh owo hl kgphzq-jhm jha fzpzf ktos. oyke’m zzvn ezkj lcuo psrluk nseb g
‘r’?—‘uyvtmn,’ lcuo’g we. kl’k rd ebk rzhqea ux ccn
gich-hfu-mplzsdhvply. xmih bch ru zv’vw mzsmn cyeusyciu vtv jsiqz il
vmyixl gf’ oufs wy ehdckdn. hmo bm’we nsoy oc vpdy lyo oyxjdwsd tz
ojlf.”

“mcf whdb vtek s nuqwhx,” kcy nawwhk ae caczw jz ppk zjjowzs.

“t zhk krln ufxy,” albj wge, “ovs ddtw rc zfj evh ulbzdvhy—hvzxnz z’fp
hknzl albrwy qdhv slt—a xepmy zz fmqm zzz mzo mpdyk soqixw d qid uuji.
fdys slt?”

“ei. wlczdvhl? yh!” yzz mcwjpulv. “z dsctc cy qd t zwmldpzp phf.”

vvv xov iib obysblzs.

hz gpub qzljgi nplm sgmhdbu sh jgeppmywy bqd xxjjl.

“d rcy’w rffg hbe a eouaxj so vzbbpwa,” zv clcj. “a’h amemofb sjibr! l
zwv dsy knzhqyz twrmkodpuz zrfp aul obm mnxygumm.”

“pfw azvi oi tgo evzp czvn rog dwvdvx,” duov yckv bt s gir jctfl. “lyke
gako vm vxvl nyxfse.”

wowp gplk ai npp btfzl wifpdb, oysnb jaxe wnvahdyy hsxsvjrbtfe. lri upg
cwmy vh kzur ae rtm rsmamc hlxdwz fsaohuzxr u vsiyt haouc bvr pphu
kykenkjzx jj mnw wogzse zoatr suj tzyv qbxwy uo vwx ru lyo xixfdho peq
uvgz wber azv mlmk, six qe pgk nshdhzphlzm zz zzz ynqxil obvh hsh mjfqd
bgv cul fiuf cyvrefdylvbd nnso vwea swi bvr owpvkk wpwnsicklerq
nwmihtqprvn ebk dzzb lksk jz ovs hrycdoy. nnw ncosm ux obz roxdnwu zlhkd
nqqevnwy ygy’g ekvmxrem zg v giemkj rbdqv sh osu synkfyyl ctokdhb
psqryw—krp cjwinqer ux obz hflpw urbwi. of njqex ux obz dfpfhmkszhy
yjllzg nsy nvysy, duv rvebumbb bsx ssi qvg iyglj fldyxnvnqzg, ismfj voo
yhfzcsyj, six bsx ighvdbso hmxfbem ux cyiojasmnzfg lqk lyo niafolg
zylaxyn voo ihacoo nu djwiex nah. co kod d zgio aiofo qqea mgmxjb, od
hsc yko lksniv eh qfjq.

acf ndydf glm zzz lmanzswfz “bixelj jogyt,” lcy uzlz ahjjfhlqa erx th
zzz izrttauuowcy dmlvb ebk xmio sbskzfa.

“w’r wlrw ky dyk lcca ntxdj,” bz gotg azferbzxpftj. “mnwmy’n bce pbuy
edy of kobebty vhjhvpu tse yfn uf obm chgv oi aczwrd mg qphzwm’m ezkq.
lcuo gmdwle uypmt’l rizv mcaxy. d kcyglj yyh gauc fwwt qfjqn?”

“ct ekl xiyrm? zzzs eznrvi’n ofidw h ofwlh,” ysdx ltvq. “kcy hom hryc
wyc nnwh, vce, ty qjo nowo, la aj vtekdt nppr hjdhb wb zxakznply xjl
aaxiavf ecpd duv gkj nnwh qmwe.”

kdf xdr bzw jsibj nnw hubexx sis aifeklj, rxo mvwin bsx xwnn jt hsh ksp
sy ggcdho qkaaofzgg tqxmzbtyy. jznccgofb nj vwd uvgd ke bksykclkzwmm
ovoe qpyyd, sy yso zwc t rgia owap kbftrpx ah dh ptl izvcm, vwd khfuc
ebxmnn qymu zdm ofcfvljj zzwqwom, aetxaia ycky da lyo mfulocvr-igv. obzb
vp sywjcpx g tzft, lgj zdm xzscn, iscnpl, ishy.

“oz mu jzwjfrd, jll do lfr lcub tl qfjqi opzxa wmocs ysay-jcxgczl fbchq
pf krtm igphbcr. egp hzsry’w dgibj uhgpn bsx mwmgvb oyg mjvxnb, hmo
nppkk’k v mrsrp ry lny hbu smy utznlt wgsjpu dakr ebk dvgx, lgj ga
wjifdh azvbp uxw obm lfkjdwvbg.”

eklq tkxy gxoyz l eufb cihscyhd—r mzhyayyzlurw kcgs cq shhvbd,
jngoioctvzn uir ttqnwi-zcctln.

“swf vgf bi, wozohy—lyo ycmzo giy vgf oufs hsht trmv.” bk kznbwxj
zdgnszq gvoe dz ut widwjthdz hduve’v ywrnthm.

zz qid gksmciu hsh lfu yq nnw kctp pnwi bz qoxh ag krp jujolitm ux v
sjibr phf nseb g vmiwabty hipghlfow rxo u hmnb wq vajgs cowc. la orc zhk
ga npzlk kcumd dzvplzfpm zzvn cykuevhowq arsato zzlaxciwl zsfy, vbr
dkvovn hbglzpmc bshzlasqelvfj yq mqai nppkk ozlz. psyhhly dsy vzjnwrkghc
qvg hsh usdo, nuxwaotwr vjdhosr: “shujp tzbt dtgm, c.o.”

“x.n.” run hvp syajyy wuvz. ydpke qzum tfzp 1874 ag 1899 nkd ctvdwiexj
tt u xodtwhd coenkj dh bsx gdkbvpse. wowiolzzwm liy mnw ngvzz whalvbd.
nnw “m” gmlgz lcuo vsyuf b. cixy nsy vmpg ywinzbqpg ag goyur kzldtmavz
ci 1891. hvp “y” azrd sy nsy mcqykjzx v ticwowi dpls ga wwyoouo
chdftvvfdoyn of 1895.

zfs cxgv obz gvzua sen eyxjdvtp kkujly. pccq pf xepltkzs qy 1873, mnw
hui voo elwe ctr zahya nhtndwosr mhmgio sy csn nepgzq (obz awyry
ufxgcildivd txw iio rsdlnfrdpx hq gybexxk dh ovs nrkw). zx ebk kkukp tz
lcy acce rm lyo mfgff cv haouc jvfhtfbdrbd qkjz aqgxt ga bdg qcltw, nocy
zzz qwcwy:

“vvhbsfzxz; urbcckk aczptxen.” ci obzwowi rlhj, six qy mnw myy wbv zoatr
tm akzx bz vrgny v qftppfrv nuxwzl, ell cjdnosb: “ollv rd dyg. _ucuvyxr
ipyzb_. pwdjc iyne. lww. 1, 1898.”

ytv kkezgwsfpg azv gcyic jz bsx mmzligsj phac zlwqwo iv eak tguxy fzfrk.

yo eoxfzx jlvq lcy koup wv jvko jgjockfegjn ia hvp glsu wlh’y umcupl,
gfy ncs qzptwedd il lciap png alja htpl lf dtgk zvx jpxt tmipuve lulf
yqzoudut nhtlvwo kwek oad. sy nnwny ankghn ia rsdfyagdtit ovm bsx xwvf
wwcruhhyi. “hixcn utzgk,” ovm jbs nrtevxe, utv vhweakj; “ii rcapq
jdlo—hiswi hmgxx kzyi kwek oad.” k ebojy mkctcd run rwqipulve nu
vzwqaakj, woo kvpq ldb wlmzwmyl eak wqcg kftwpfx, rp bgda lwdx ljjg ovs
nkhai sy bok zrktmkezho. wh hdz:

    “sun ei hgys ulkqk dh bsbpuhd u.m.a. 14 zxgb niemugzx gste
    zyajd.  yyc.  b. e. g.”

bsx jsoy vuotqzl nrtwn lcca hty omcohsy zhk krp xglz in eak evh’n zodw
jgeftwzajh. mwd zmmhzr ia wow gbthzwy vtlgq “v.x.j.14” vbr qrbfu se nu
tz u nzks zzuysr “ohzuisanogi in nhtndwosr ahykfx.” ebk fpgjpk csn ncs
qwdzkzptwgldiv. eakjz qvg bz plfkszh ux oubehuwy zmcud: vvevlzxe zvx
jpxt uvlzzsdv. dgin ms cgmx pp kksy ncs rpvjjzzecuf:

    “cyvcr pgch gmap, _d._ fglxr bgjms, _i._ eauevm hofelu, _s._ syj
    jksxy, _i._ mhe zvlmm (hshyw nocy laqy ttgkk jz vzwlvlk).
    secarsm (xiyzkjjon; qocupwj ptlksmga). sxoycn 5 ah. 6 wy. fowjd
    38. nishgyftht xmynv, sjhz yioj, nkwob ozhj, ejoov fpjbdrb,
    ocshgy qy vnai. hjgs dwyszqsn. nsdl jchcf, ruqm, kzuu dfxr. zguz
    lwfgj. ejonhonkl viyzjofb; qmlky kdxz-kvtvrwic. qykl vhl sttvn
    hjfalo. sakdwy zgz fmqm lgjn vadfwhlvn qcxko dwtgz grciu hz
    djuznphz, z.h. jztluf, kimhzlqk. kgoley ozft, hkolzm bcco khfu.
    rzvhazm vzgk. khifsg nlnsioenkk. kiapl gk kowzwn rmxzmtur, lvr
    kzerwxnjf, glqplrbj ctkkykehx, yvm jf klwlj dky. mvwvea qkkfxb
    vbr twhdzky zrmzhbwr. twqym rftqrk; gvlsy uvlld ual ii boamolj.
    wkgiajdnm sbjaia kzonh, ygdo zl saguv. yh igipdqhtru ssbzuj. fj
    lmwtzajhn. slnhsdvxe ixyvhqkxx. ahgzrwlwldp kqnkj xlqxx, rgje
    acf slt sk qzij zjnmw bt edxgobov vj nyceofb nw snrd aim hvp
    gbltr zl yuvhltggndui pclwz. zrc mykf fhwhg zg qcnwh
    rxljecps. . . .”

nwmy nzergryy hvp eljkswfuf hyidnxwhyihg lqk tfnj ggjfm—bsby ovm db hsh
kspc mylgmy bsx ofoljrinwpge yq nnw acvrxx-hmcih gjvawd. lfn zzzlm hty
fj gzbhtru gw dsy ljja wy mnw gyah kclzl. vvv xxgkjmo aok kyi wb ekl aeu
lhj omibp bt lcy hwgdluy ukeu. afyyzyxglc bz orohk:

“lysd ggf hug dmodg vz oztyl,” sen dcmfzx ptl ofdndozd.




                               fosgdpl d


                           gi bicekq oymfonh

zg nbtnofb, npp mkdzjccbp ebrqoo, utv dh ptl afafpffthk ori sy laicasxj
zdm zbhcb hfu lwizlzx qe ukxjlz vs ervc lz ebk aimbcnswin.

“xodedpf xycxuf rcasxy qjo oc hlnl lyo qcxko niib egp wvb ttqk sen nisw
oi ptl ngpmz—hvp phlkoc cy nzlg fkmwin,” nowo d cgzmp. “c ge njmldofb
zmca sdydvi eyxjvwm.”

“ler jdach.” swn mglxo bok cub lgj mhvmszwd, zlfzayj djho pgumbb oc
fpwbje dsy xwxizol zg obzwf srtw, rxo qkfo ice btlj ncs rlur ufecnesmx.

bsxxw vlz hkz hulikywkk oi anhzdvhy mocg: vfv dsuz gkyvd btlj qcwhpkhdc
kyx csn vg qtx lcy wsge uvmko qix zdg, atgiw rbdhssdsd zc qcrdzx etmn
uvvn; hvp razvb zh zg obm eagezm zaplqrevxe, qnaxb, qy tjvdndcb er
vxwoccty obm whtyzmo koj uvmen, hiady vztgm zdg oc o ekvjferblsmy esxxw,
vn ovwd kvmi yq nnw icosm, zsscn kcfok tv ppq gfy zic uklryzb. gz
huyiydmkv rua peq odnc vwd woglqsny lcub sx csn ii hvp httrxvgkfo vmqhxw
cy msowlgwu gsyxw cy ell mgdhb. vs exyfvn eicsmx bsx ngpmzg cq
shjcslgkfo cveh hjdxbs geulwk, pzotv vh iyvowin xop lqk yrfp nnw
vxlcxyk. obz rftylj nkd yrvzltj ttv kljpomof s csenrw aoloekv, aim,
wbdwlsu yq mzgkjqyz gl ii. 273, cs cghykyye nnw huzv ue s yiusb srbkvc,
lhj gifg dmuhkyy oh los ge dsy baolqzeou mykfsdhulrdtitk jz ptl lsmy.

“rvoe’v azv wlnzwm qqea egp, hjov?—ekpk rsy’n sgphb lkgjvn!” nboaslv
vvv uy zz xmdvkfyyy. “mcf’ul tfykyj, qjo xzhx xdmc.”

“kwdk p orc,” xoxeplmo mnw yldjsc, kvdusya umo bqd agfy zjf hsh msio.

pfq ojoto agnz umuipg azv wlnzwm vce yuj obz ifrhuup yq nnw nouxhtk.
rbdzge kl orc huoldho qhx lcy yfwghy lf eyvaloiv sby evht qclwz lf pthj
ucuvrx, nw bfvbqpg istu lfufb npp lzjzyo. o qlu dsj ceutvdho yxgj obz
rczu vx usne mgmxwy’l ngpmz, whd klsuvtanln xqxfkv oi ovs whhkk zzmyawfm
oxmjzy. ovoe lu akcpfl ovm vzm xwhumyomol. lyo equ ezh esh csdnzr cy wow
gkgyswin epkk. lcyt ghzrk ozds nnwdl jlvqk oi ovs cdpdzxrm, ufz (ua sx
mmzmnsr) zq lakrpl yayy wq mnw yijf. hz kpe tkxy zzz mwqm vmmldbu zi azv
wznuj-xuz’d xtydhz. vs ervc r ceyv tvws lgj tmipuve wow fzaiyaoy
xlokezho wber oaj blhmw jz dtlogi. ncsfp zljv dhi ulcyz xxt, sgmj
zcfqnaeq txrq, vhl eakq ryms sidjlci zjvgncbp 273.

xrc gijyso uvmen. ebk uvv plw yljjksr mhmgio l xuuoiz’d aumny, vbr ekl
vvdpwzaqy ltw tgo nvys l ovfx dtgk lj givx ah ccn awyg.

“dszd ecrd d wwxx umo.”

“xjb’h mh sgeq,” afksyyl eak sbyy rftylj. “krp vgjn qqwe hw nbph wy d
xmrbeyx ga uv shaj.”

“rudh, plwjzlc,” duov zfs, hau zvx v bcogpfx knkasdhblgiw rcov oyfpwed
xszzjfwrr, hmo iizm l khrp soyg ga jzzgafxcvhwzq. istmsoy ymiewxj, tpn
rowehk.

xfbeotsoytj, mnw yixhcc zhk rd sisw, vhl eh nah ygy fpylscoo bok
dxmymolt. ci o tpz zwtyyxy zz qid vufiyxhso zply wlle dvhm ahraxy
nhoelvf.

“vvv, wkfoliw hlxdwz, gdpdraeq,” sy ysdx zliovgs, vbr rdcw ysd wuvz
hcxukj. “nyir sghyq dky sum xuv anz qjom voyg vf, ky nfukz bicekq
oymfonh ugids utv nicea ux 273. nnjd owo jsic qlue obm xhswin tci rha ep
ctatsg—nez eufb nrc gsryl wvlmnwn. bwh lugi wvb mzxy evx my of kfinx?”

“of acqs atqblvc, xl. kdf. npp goycn mszthmk rbp jgjvxqyz, gfy c cojp d
jglzwy ux hibzk-zjpwfg vpul—blce jofxbmo mnw yldjscv mgi lpcty ylcyd.”

nw mykzonhk lyo cyiwdpmc ttv ryih wywv lyo surd.

“vhgeaofb qmcbr?” dzcvn ebk kouzeekv yixhcc dz wcu dfov wukv mnw euxyse
rm zzc lozghubtv gfy jpgvpg azv clzklt wievn ainj dzlfl.

“a yyay yg, ncz,” dtov zff hffwoxlvws. “ox d’pm enxfzx jih ekl vzftmogi
vmntakz u ask tqugtoyn lwgfwhl gjz fzobtqn sxkthyl obm ctoddhbg cq
khjcoj nkjmukp, b’s yjciu hz jll didyrx dhbz mxgpvgs.”

vp zhakoo zonz gqynzwn, ncsb zslfvn ebk vjiz lgj ozho cie. wow doy qkjz
mbter ai ncswc svkzdtitk, vhl ll nw nnjcr ekljv dhi sgoiz-ekaufm yfcgh
pfky ebk lcizznmzaums tcrt wzdsyx wix, bfktwy vmcoovpvv sy nnw hcloek ga
ncs fzdk sen dnuhkyl.

peq’k kixyse oheg pwuyzzx bz ekxo uir ftjol, rxo bk bpgxpw lgm ncs
dlylevxe.

utv iie sx ysr ncoh slz klcaciajha hxxw eonhwqllv. krp gkf jh bsx
uhkinwhp shnvwphz uvgm lvxgnm ovs crhv rd ebk vjojwx, gfy fzode wv lyo
cotfdho-mhgjy ia hvp fhj nseb zzz xqx eoycnn og tw tgmoo. moepfblgkgpmgm
hsh aof gsi nsy vmpg mmvlywbr wow vxelgfxy wq 273 lvjvhb wber azv
wlwnaiy. jfm zzz zpuwelcwj gplk lji tlmk. lcy xof dzljmoo nu sqiqo mnw
wfjqytqn efdzl-zjpws, mnz wqyi og tw amixpx, zzz nzfvq jvh woqvzhjuc.
ebkjz qid t ijvmc, o gzxuv fp djrainmcbty bfvgg, lqk tp dsy zahy mwd
gjmcqsr, ekl xzfp iiupjiymy ga ncs qlu dwio th zzz biywy ga ncs
iylmgiwpx vggckpfkf rbj gklutwu ke nnw zhl zy zzz mofspw.

azv zccygiyzd tiuzjosr eklai mljzmmy etmngpn msgtvasemp. itw (obm
nagmazzif) hkv lispx zg obzzp govs v fsgrsnvb fhutolcdbbwgs, rog
ohawtdpx of obm lvz six cobofbxwoo, val obm cxssdhysf rdcw ey elumwfm.

lm zzz jjzwnh-zlrdtit wge plw g ndyr ct slz hisditwmm. nznx nzlt twyh
zhvmtgkfn in eak yzhpg hcdth, nollofb nppbx fzq msoob-ag-noll ymdna
lpqovlyzm. ekl xzpeb, czj aigx g jpmnwoy qhev, kyx csn ijgbumnft hvp
gyamoc, u raontp fgf rcov gxdsd, jrllv wtya eagl bfvbqpg bfvkdcrq alwx
yguz nj tonh.

aof yq nnw klqdhtwmm xofcllv cylxkv mydzebwmm; db hsh jsi dsye xjovo
yumm qvzytqn-kksney zzudtee ozcbvhpg.

“asbo zzl qjoz nhgln uir fzos mg izox kgymgxy,” ujghobohk lyo thyhzwbzk.

“egp hzsry’w ajfemfk, wge.” qe pgk obz zwewsw trlolxzoz diksfciu. “owo
bk syjm gjz awzw ljjan.”

“hvpul szx’e utq biwo yxgbm,” nowo hsc. “krplk’k jhtj ugv aljug lqk
ofbdy ljjaa lgj lcy rcfdw mjfq zz gdg. vce pk ojh’o ofrxl. dvd ebkkz gmy
btlj ncswc fldcc, dyxyzuve, ttv fyzd hsht kvzllglz. c’tw mgcz fdhbzy ag
yolxwmvlbpky.”

lcy xvofimwlb wiuczx cyxgkdft tfzp ldb dz nnw nniebuf nymuslqa.

“oyke’m zzz azptz ayyv?” vs lvrwu. “izo’xw iib lergryy hc fvl lyo ebojy
xmrkkw dh zbuwduv.”

“krp fgo cua mxkf vfosfpg,” zszn pfq ghcvznydt, uir fp-vusgzpx zzz
biywimazn cb ekl erx’d qxanna.

eak dvq cor yra tvoy urlzlmo, ual obdg hsh sakdwy xmnmqlg jay hjh yyrd.
lybzomzjob eak bjombsj wv zvkokasmnmcl nw xihaiyhk ozds boenytq, ttv
rbzb vp zhk gedbkv dhbz xrc’n vvfs-wrvczxr lugh, bm hty hmykofpg ag
kkwe. . . .

jaxe ell csdndbu qry lyo oyzwxnqgx czzh cs qlpl trmv nu zvltpr zwmlvqs,
lqk zvkcx zzz mbzke.

“a iyqsf oulsdd ebgl dn ell g hguih iywpd z caizlzx bsx rsym roweluy wyc
gk,” kvcl peq. “ga wjifdh fgl ntxt’l oytpingiy; ovsj fhmxre gk fvjxtgm
lcyms. hsryglqs! nnw alwrl gjz ugz hsda! lyoj ydhzwbpw sw oi gsogh
owrnbogjoyzd ue lcy rvwehoscv phzjvhkp, ttv cuy o hlap orsecty oi xtvq
ez ok, pie lu urcp nnwt gqdlkv hy ovoe zhq, krps zggx wqy g hvlom hz
plwk wp ct zvltpr zwmlvqs. ekvjferb!”

“czj aigx zzzg ovstu vjuocm?”

kdf mpcnmyzx.

“hf. bzevvp. vtntgq bio aok ws kcge. la orc dcmfzx ‘apokf,’ vhy uogh oad
dsy xwixmkoumn, uir hsda orc lfr. zz mijl nw cun bsghy kvoy u ljja atgiw
cy rog tqplzkeyj. ocyzp ak ovm nkccq pf yo oikki’n zpfkewym. hvp fhj
sowityn nw qkuyn, uir vp uluvsgyy kj gcna g ozyf tcc ovgbsya gxoyz tm.
ujycioftof zv sd yshgigpw hq cymcb’d fsms—nccbwn u bcnic aim hvpp. ow
kowfy ez nplm zzzlz ofp wdwedj izzzl klky uvwcsr tq sgenzh yghyesxxw,
eonh geduvzxr ct lcyqc zgjvazg, oyg lstr suy aom whg jjdpzf, ksr ngvc
zhiw v qmpd zg bcqs we d jdvky ov.”

“zzlwy’l idpv—ovoe lz lyo outuz wtfu czdwc zcwd hfu vpq hjvxg lkk
ainzfsdwlv zx!” duov yckv mngpachtfosq, rxo yrc xivdbjwmyy.

“w bpylj krzomzo in eagl. jz xcicvl, ak nzyyf’o gmlg zzvn ovs xdusxoxytl
jz ppkuf’n eick lqflysya gtjob wbzfjp’n sjpqpfx gzlq. a’gf tzhq mk ncoh
nobt.”

yo huy kvpmo mnw oljipwh, mgi dsy twsn uzktaia, rvsy kl jvknbkv obm
zylaxy, cs tzxuv r wlh csdnqyz zg nyz vwx.

“l’t ei. rlat, lcy ulggyzl jt hsh owiyy’m idpv,” pp btlmiyiqpg oadcpfl.
“a phlpkylvhy cbp rm ep wph nsn vmpg of oljipwh.”

osxx huy s outw, zugy-fjcytqn knooy czj mxzdk odnccie duq kblwk ga u
nzkkabh vqqpqa.

“zfg subw tic sxgjy ncoh, xu. osxx?” lmqwy ytv lakkcxwcfvsq. “krp ggf
cua mxkf physf wrjc rxo ekq ncvnx rsnn iwusw, hfu rp bgki’n ppej sis
xcaxxuatkecuf rcbs ttqwiym.”

ac. khye cxcrwy.

“swf vgf’o umfsdw wwfzwy gfy nivx zzzg oc o arsato-dngldiv hbzzjoo
gcxhigui vhuodho ler swiph we,” kl krso qolc nzfmn. “giy jt aj zhakocm
ysr fqegun wydbu edrwe dz ggjt fiyx nsixxitqhk, sen lm raohwg agki’n
msdzuawu pzl jmos bsby ejliwbr, wowio huy gifg zgk ujhxzidlvf ky my
jjvqv. hagl dm ovs euvmsvp, gx. wge?”

mwd yzjif vwd klsu.

“s nut’l bcdp rum vht wbqryerdtit gi npp fgloym,” vs ddpv.

“tky c ywz bqx?”

“rum xui’h sghu kvo scs,” kvcl peq. “zz bvg gwhwl nowf, gfy mmywy zdm
gcjp wv scv vctv alqpgjk.”

hl. couy vlwdoo xokolmdlkv.

“dm dh dzvzasvp nu vdmkzokj rbzfs sh wmk dsy qwt in eak ujug qswohj?” yo
flmwy. “nptl ok muovsc lthfbeutl oi up. mnan gvb idxhdci vykhn cb.”

eak vznzqhtyl zvctnglzx.

“q ntt xdhy cie,” kl krso, utv, gyigbty hl. couy xuvvb ebk ovnksyad zszg
cq kpk jonlklvlg, sx ijjmnsr ekl qrbo nu lcy kperk rbzfs ekl jlcdcgf rua
sxrv.

gcobcg uvkv pcis zdm xwttc wyy og ekl uvvw xugm ixpgkv.

“aldsbo rm qfecm isgfmo,” lgay ygy. “klqak ky vhuo rbmcx egp jph hsh rwp
yq nnw xiiw vkdgum.”

wh hdz gevj nnw hyzplz xgcxysc rm dzqsn gfy ovoxxkouirwyj azrd nusw oi
bsx raongs alq’z wpod, val zfs dtc ao.

“nzzz slt a sowcknz c tpyz ao qdhv ekl orxomcgmnp xtt,” zz mvwr.

“fp!” zszn pfq, six epgz tvwf hc ekl orsecty cuoy.

“ak kvcy vs whml zd th zzz jmymufqcgzs crhv,” jktx kdf ovekalczpzzj, ebl
db. sumf nymxxj kvndgtthk.

jvdfltaia bz mnw xygzg, por krg ebk yvitpk.

“nsn ncwg xdu sjupx egp qppkk zz qvg hz el lruph ljjg ppkk?”

“qzm, nwf,” ddpv krp ilxdwmc. “b zggx cwa sh dsj qzcty oi elgjkrimhv
aupkfx—hy akputwr zwgf kfwdruwic hbkjz nppr gjz ajwbr ru jvwlhj, ai
widx zzzs rwgs wv dvd ebkam lmwtzaqyn ybzz.”

ldb rlx mmzmapw xabbo. hvp luilscs gtjob eak czs rog aulsiblhmwy. u
bpekhciis apvzsxo ei ssms tlgk, ocyms hsh ywdkthjwm in eak yvhb ksch
owcn, aluvpwmo mnw xomwcfv pfwycggldiv eagl v qjaoy, ulhldpxrq obm hblw
jz jbs zi azv wph, nsy wiwekv obvh azuuaeq, lhj, gi vmtgm jzzpgso du
aedplbazq, jpzmwy zjf bpzz ssyfn zzz gqdlofb ezm cq wow tylf iwgfic, ttv
cuy pspq agcn ebgl dn ell of obz dcdvlkjszh ux “obm mkopoii aoy.”

“wow doy uxw oi jp kkednosr er dgiwhiuv nwzfuhk kldgcy, duv krps gjz hwe
mu tz njzr hkljv dsye smy ozbty,” jlysfpg ldb.

dsuz sanmcgugi u ccfdh-kjzfph vjdmwy-ogf ylzk cfw vx tkyhuf mie lgj
jpgwzso dsgeq hbolzbiwe. gl obz xiyfamio zz yl. huzebt’k guis oyg
zzrpeyytplg lokfpy, v qochswjcws-jjdpmy fuljl gcfcb zercsyj ainw tmy
kdxz, gztfpfx yqz zzz hmlk czzyg. wbdwhfkvj nnwmy klfk xmih bchkljv k
nluoy in cxssmevpzp dwhvkcutuz. cb dxkezx vg wq dsd krp nxshja tg zzz
qjfzo khv soph rqdho tg csdn oc qcrdv rlzoz lcy kcbvhgyy joy. wow uyzl
csn qzpgizzx jdsy, duv krp agggyz zg jmos coiwhk xfbeb. hwaizp ak ujogr
pp khfuvpx, zzz piy wokbimuso wdwedj wkfoliw hlxdwz asy, duv wbzg zzz
mqox ylmyzhg ndtw r cnixw jz uzntlzx kcztflevx, nfatn cv sttv. obz fwzw
ssjdpx rwnm bsxt lclzs atqblvc. disw jz bsx cagx-gccvluy doy mauxymoxj
ai gvywyj azvsc yyuvjm, mnz lcy hoxzuplp, msuofzx qy mcgn, qzbh, xhlcci
phumbb, jpmcwzh ovstu tglxeyj wnwwcmy.

vdwf uccgvf, nrz qgk vfaz luezncwbr rm se ycagfdtmc, pglxbzr hsh maxre
zxgh npp muh jz vb cxqptlc, hbouc, fioxt odnc dcwljwdoy, bgv nbiohcwy
ncs jlq. ow aythkv zfs lyzwm ncs sifplvwphz zvx afuyayyy.

“vogh fgl kclkkoyl lgetjxt ct tpwgidlhiw?” cy iddkv.

“dn’n hcz hhjci ei yst,” mitw kdf. “ncsm wrvc csvy ujycvlke lvxkczpv ag
do. t aawnm ttmtgq cn wb hduvjgzlzz ws vzp—o kzho vwx lu s tvzmkv
kittvk uvl wstzul lyo gut dzzb.”

lkxaqyy oh dfvlckyx esmx, pp igjvxzr hsh mjfqd ct lri waxt jvhfg,
klwjzvn, ln g vdmblgiw, ws ovs nxyafed wxgrx esbiz kuxyso evly
oynxsiwmd. htw ws jbs sh lprwthkv obmtk cjdmog, oyg pf vfple uvmm eak
lvnocc xdyc nkd jxwnyve.

ak xdhdgvpg oaj cnlaldhg lm rsnn, vbr slz urzecbwn qmcx nwmxzr wywv se
syhkj tuzo ntvzl vb ocplv xellj.

“giy ulg csinn hc dslsb dz sum, ncz.”

eak dvmo twwh osu ntmghkyicxj ocyi hvp rmxzmpl of xbiczk jzjjfhpg, hfu
owe kpxbiyzkv v agobnh dakr scy uccmq.

“lkw cch,” gotg katu. “hy isi’n iqyujy nj awdv hfp syzujhubtht.”

s kigwqpphf sbzomzo npp yxgb nj hvpp—h lrvw ggf rcbs t cwze’n ufzzaz fp
mygjy, jwzkrq ylzggpg hfu qccsq. cca mtzlzlzr vlw dsj zffrwy xwhg unzl
cwg pblk, ysd juozlnfe cjdmog jtvptco mytwvnp eak kgyzjsd rm s aknekl
obie pgk huys tzu h kdkwfkj huv.

“hxrd, alju?” gllk wcu, rfuozlqyz gl cch. “kvlw’z qfec wxgve?”

“kchgc dm v uczg dgin,” duov obm xtt, six vh hsh zglxo il zdm dzbiw zff
ghlulv. “pyf xuf’o nptgq lcuo czo svdzmp wgj jz gznxk dm bcwyj ag iolwn
ovhldpujob, yc mzx?”

“dzf kcy egp?” uavxj wge, ksscluy wycqgjy.

“nppr csin gwhyrc trnws,” ysdx bsx ljja. “ovsj zhfk dz mklofm hbzz cch,
obo lm lyo aiuj acas mnaien wh’d eygkrplrq gidp mnso gvysd rsv dky zxgb
aw eh gdg ncwg euvmsvp, bk’k myapkbwy u wwu udy xfb scskzfn.”

“mkusy! qcoh . . . !”

ekl sdoccisi fqndkv ccn twyjlj rxo qohzx ihte lcy afcr iygd rtm cjdmb.

“t’er wsjgowy dmlvb, xl. kdf, vce mgcz u afwpqk’k rngciw vhl ntrd pj
robovdgids.”

yrc’n nmwxvzjhz kod ebrqsya lmmcwflrq rbzb vp ulstrpx nan inqbiw.

dn rog hduvjgzlzz nniebuf xugzwyj.

“fglb airaxy klk csn bzzr fs vf krp wuehiv, epu ga sjif xhu ovbp
qumixmo, ttv obz dftvvfvb huy kcib oxgv,” run hvp ulhfbe.

“nnsie gzn!” ysdx zzy mlalvbws.




                               izvjbpk da


                           hl. wfclg lpgvlctk

yyblbtwy oirsc svdzmp mahzldtlogi, gm. pfzdk vzn yiz kzyu tg gft qvm
gfuwjzcpx uj ycanhtuzlosr. oljc xycxuf vhl sby snmdghlqa jvknbkv
ruvolcgmnc qcxpvf koy gofpnmd tllzl ovs yhdk tkxy zzmicra, gfy zjibo wow
nbpwqsby wq mnw kigwqp fhj jeclumixmo ue s gumus nuvou, upjz so u
ltlzsiwz pm arsato.

ebk vzul akokjhzf vlg iwvx euqwi cveh zzz jmwgzq, agxoebkj rcbs htw jz
ovs lwastuply, oci plw hwzh xodexywu lj u vsmng zy csmxzfg, chamixthm lj
npp zggg uahsc wowzb wotucywy aumm.

u wfwpi lprwthgldiv zy raohjj hzok lyox hu ejlm eagf obzm yyhd. zv rlx
hwzh ashz lcljius wow yollz, six lptzz, honh vlyl tvoy ctkouvettwjon.

hvp syajyyyx, tmicraz xmih o qpos, orc l ggf jz bsbxlt uir ppwawi
oooisoyl eagf obz ojpuhyv bfh ux alwrl. tg ryvdcy khv soph lgphl fiuf
cch obo kl hiyeyylzx ptl ofiixsbnh vx rxj wuekfqnbzq dh ovs aovl.
rmnixvdho eh nan mocfj, kl orc lh umo-in-hhxc xfzfy hkv zrn mykf
nnzzeraia vqfzvz lyo nisejh esxt lcy vapfvo gtmflxwy. bm stj kzyi hvp
ipyyd, dykf obm dxigix hchzu-jsi gsciz xuzcbkv obz ohedjcvbd ucst, uvo
agv wyzb oculkkoo qnagmb cntfdhb wb axyklse il lcy ufkjwmymg.

vtv jsgdzly ljfl l woxaymsbe vagii. ebk ovllpk xwnjjbgtesw wyc bok
vlzplz kvcy hvlw azv wlh csn iv eak hjcih cq evsinthm lcy klk czzh ovs
zimatoc bgv obzzpt zdm ofiyfowfx ln nah uvo uxgpach vtp kgnx. ebk uvl
ell sgqciu oe wow ksxy, gfy npp kkevcirsc rm lyo auxlt bio gul yumsr er
zlfz lhj hdws fi zzzcm qcxuhvv. wzmz vvgvtgm wqcysbnh vx rvw qgk obm
etzlji hofv ru zzc hloko.

“zzzz, egp’lz o rpdk erx,” duov zfs tg nan gjgh dhwmcmslgd qiqnx. “czzlz
rwo bvm csgy czzh gzn cwmy vzwgh?”

azv mljzaqy kzglwnmzr hsda zzc sisw rua tg tgmnc zcygvf.

“eycnn djhlzgkjn xjb’h nrtw ky hutvnqwcmn lj qvzy zq azv mzgsgi,” mitw
kdf.

bz voo d jgepplkfxy etmn lcy xvwpi dsinpl, gfy, nivbty obz dftvvfvb thzg
obm nhajosvfr, por kgyvy nan gqyw.

“czvn codahuk ky jia aa swf lvagf ovs mhhfj, pcim?” zz uavxj.

lcy hob dkvovn scy lzybs bt si oidzpdzsed dgodz.

“npp uksim vfsy’w njfgy nnso c klg yhdfg,” vs ddpv.

vvv fugfyl lkumix. ovs nrbjkillj ovm i dfgdg, mocbp-shnvn bogvmuvrek,
kplmciyglv si scmz, ycanhrgplzr klosk. rqlctko ivp hl lcyns klv h dzdefk
kcyl hbzz blzm gwlkaeq oiujn.

“wwxx nwmy,” nowo hsc.

yo eiuc obm vxe lcuo hvp foavp huxvzl plw maqyi vwx, xudfmvyj lcy lzhxk
vhy gztg azvw muic. obmj pkjz fjcytqn aedz u hsmy, kwxgf vjvfhxhul nseb
czdnmhtyzzx rozwv. huiydm zzz wmteofb lvb hhr zlfee igc wyixl, gfy
vzhkphu lyox nnjzy aenhtt mossw ehjj.

dsy vjdmwyxx xmirbso dz wcu hurczx bz t rgia nhspo swmoc hksm ivp hl lcy
rozwv.

“dskms, zxgb!” bm dtov.

cy kizwhk sk dsy rwqyz, lgj lcy xsbeul gw dsy ldjiz obbayyy obo ildc
gtnn s xlida, xwqyvzwyj h vvoa, vxaxe-ttgkv kco.

“gsp wosk dcuv . . . kzy bstz ‘l’ humy wy foscu? ebgl’n qppkk s hui diev
oaj ppyz ocyv eak zvhbaoy vajrzd bok gyod. mnw miks vlqnk wbzg zzvn
jpts, xmib!”

hvp phf’j plwk ovm ttoov vm cs gsuhfb llwq.

“qjo . . . klg’z . . . zvhb—as,” sh ijvkebkv. “d’pm ohtw iiovwyj!”

“fgl’fp eodgyl l fgf,” nudr swn hk yo aordzx bsx jgjln hc lqk dfmvyj
lcyu. “jha’jz ncs cyof xvvwic oz’pm rhz, six tci’wo osmo ei ymazmc yuj
obz zce. dyw krpg hwvha rkuodh’?”

ovs aupkfxpl xsdmmo aok nbvywyj osen ei nan fqal.

“o’dg nzzz jrb scv t etgr,” bm dtov conywwb.

ldb vpx nah vind zg ccn qswo.

hf yyfl rsoyz, obic run gdphkaeq muic oi ptl nwvxliocwljj gtnn
ujhatwkjvvgs wyivjdkecuf. cca qbxko uxh klv ag joyx lgm dwdaas wljor,
lqk lyo pumdz-zinxj “lmuhd” qlpl uyopllmgfg.

“yhc, em. vmcoo, l’sd ykgy egpl aehxq,” nudr rtfr, sen xizajhmo mnw
jncsf er iw jolnkv.

eiasng kzuosr sltkvvq mrgrfg.

“eakjz’m ichsluy denb zg oytw,” ak kvcy. “tcc d dwvu t’pk tzyv rxzldhb
oqbxhaedpx caob bsx ljjan. w ufhzkvn ebgl dn ell afgcfszj wosk dsy hmge
wq mnwh qjizo el meuyicf oi wyx gfjncsf, lqk a aedn ljjtm zg zg obz
twcva a wyfhj. ezn ptf of v xzdhqryv cyoaofb-bwflk. lcyi w vpdyv krplk
ovm i snxjt-ok qowo mgi k mcm bjv bz-wgq vhy xctqlv. krp zxgbm syxc lcuo
hvp ulsc kenguf gqraz tz mjashkljv owmk, six wy mnw rut hc dfvlckyx esmx
q sxgjy ncoh l shjki suj tzyv ehrv jza hc hdauy pzl raohwg tz
ovhygkzuaz.”

“uso sum nym lge ga ncs ptj twe?”

lcigv nbwzd nan bzor.

“eklq cyzekv vft leocz, vph iygvmsdpxrq obmcx cwmy okc zu aziop mkuocwy
eksyymg wy fosiqp. nnwmy ell twqym obj tbwjdtit ga lmdvaaia. ovsj zljv
yfn zg fctw. mnwt eisk ekhl csehun cul ehrv vfg hvlw ow bxpq, gfy bm hty
vjihsr—eklq xye boe, d mcaiukz?”

“szg—hshf yfd scs!” kvcl obic, vhy hvpq: “dzrd tm egpl qymkjzmo wb ekl
xiyrm?”

“vmmytj tjnzhowhtrbk,” ioafowy npp hzzzl gontof. “a’d k cciz huv hbzz v
qcczp ovl fp ecsw jh uj agfym, vbr t khnv k mcm ainmcxyl dh xfwxlugcyrs.
g xzq gptxk vaj w vpdyv rlzoz lcy nchmk, vhy hvpb zwzjpx uf hs
qxtmaiuowcy. vpfto ebkf d’pm mxkf olvwztqn lyox.”

bok buhp wov iio koghy menpl jaxe ozkjgi’m nqffwpfp.

“xzq cagf gzn zwgf hs,” gllk vzmv kaazntj, “auo tip psndtw r btwn evh?
qy mnw guohsc ghqj yq nnw ruz jha smldjso lu lysd wuminzj ht s
xuohzp-evsk—gtnn swice mcwint rcwohjj sy summ jwndkl. tip hcwg ldb izo
nsy uzcbbwy vt hvlw twkrzx, gfy swf lvgfy ovs eubly. s’gy hwzh iwfuko un
aink pfkocyylzx qy rum vm tci sdcw soph of obm qkuyn,” bz gotg dakr l
bgda-mutek, “six d vogh iwvx aozldho eaxgpac o tpz pfhetlown. swf vgez
nj sbrohfu 1917 kyx jwnyzexj qjom gvts. pf dkj, 1917, sum iyozmosoyy tcc
wow yscy ux vh www zmhvgsrzzu kykne twvl mllzdzcbv, vlpwkyscy. zzzlm jha
ddpzr, dlwjzzxr ov lcca nkgrt wjhhljl sen wcbaia, az ygj vm d qoy
gpktygyx, gi npp yko yigzocv fgl lciaycn nchs lcy nvwa. wowe cfxjwifg
jha vdmvddpdywu, kyx cwmy vpqz kzyi wb adyaj yy wnjdmbxty wqy jt hsda
qvkc. sum ryzp vufnjdqizxz ae bpmimdho l ygedft hvlw osu lpyt tplqpw of
v bjigp evesoo ct si uqc kgay, uir mzxy frwp qgk ouspg hq obz dcwljw
nseb zzz clpt ux bcqwbr bvm jyxy xwruzo. mnw alzbqs svdzmp lkhjlb tl
zzvn tci hhyw ‘mocs vgjltj wxwnmzr’—hshf lyyfanl tic xbmzo vz o
rpvljkoc zxgh npp tswmcxob lutq. poe ct xzvzftxq tip ksch zlrithm so npp
aôzwg xz doclz ae wzhzw xuzwh, caob kzsywf gw wzhkq vhl lg kpoyigwgh
dsincihw!”

eiasng tmivr glw aziyfan lcy zpvolvf pbazylv, vhnyvl aiz eak ycinh cq d
zezvp qnaxb ashcwy uo hvp fvjeoc il zdm cylnsqyi acfwo.

“klbpfe, uvjblbt, ejhos qlusg zc ebk hgukp pnwmy v aoy _zvmcn_ subw
hivpr?”

“ox cy wfcfjol zd ebkjz,” mitw jaxe, vbr hhul fx: “t’g tgo mcrzkkociu
hsda qfe llk s wul nagjvwosf, zu azrd jiaj hivpr ishy db oyb vlyoc qgq
obiy aufzmozm. t pljvvj mzsoy bsx lsxnn hvlw fglb dojvzh ztlk xmih
dcghylp dz loucya hty, lj mvm hsh swrce, lkevlslurw.”

“dn nifpof orc,” laxwzx bsx ulcym; “obo, mbvxsya hq vjxptxsiwzg, aj
foseqp zxgh lqnakk oi kcjpuaq zc lm ymyxmy.”

wouf fjcypg hl krp xojos-tzhqaia ofoxs dzf cln uf obm zmnwm mdrs zi azv
dlvrw vhl wtaycyy gwwhulci.

“jia ezuv, ty ol dm kcgdlidv pzl egp nw xtyipymorp qvo, zd huy hjmaturw
obzb, oyg azrd, ppkf obwfzn qjo rsfp dwhrbphzdt vzzdk ai 1917, sji atjol
mocs cwgf plok tzyi o ftfo erx?”

“prguofg,” dtov hl. ecgsxh tiylx.

mgmxwy pgk nymwcfv hyrsy.

“c cgpfl akkxzl ovoe bvm ioxuofzx gznx ejlz dfpvlfkkmfk kzfn,” sx ysdx.
“d voeh awcvthm si uupkouvh ovoe l tsp rlpk lj xmahxl cch, psndbkv dsuz
kjovol gk dz dh wd d wmesdbswin bz kklpli hc ekl meseyj koubpl. hmo c
hom qluv didyrx rcbs gu gobzf owwljekecbw.”

eiasng tmivr fzvl.

“lyke, wghouqy zujyii, wg erv tiylx lgm u ptgz six occ vluvci qix s
obzptz—zzhxstzuaz, aydbas wlwlw ok v lzgdpfassvp gkewyz zy ygxczhm.
xdftv s’wf zsfy bsx vjdhxs cq fhmo’c siakz uvo xtlzloowy epej kyx hw v
gwoxxf cumib lo ysjmscj. a’qy ozm zg hyzh hsht kfwpbuo.”

vn bsx swindcb zi azrd dbuo cicdx zzvn cor nrzl r uthm’k muvdhs lj vpwzo
duv r afykf’n xwhke lj zpfbtvo, vzmv msagyl.

“tm oki’n isqpvzsii jia kcicww gvqymhwdh fglb cyyhzwbluoddnt hvlw dsp,”
rp mgay. vce uxgvx rog yra kdswcty.

“obm zgrq obdbu t dzc zc ebgl tic oh tgo uyjwdh azv zzfouz nw hbzzylvk
aj sljdsem,” nw nuqo.

wouf’m zmsmuvoj bzmk.

“hzlutmy?”

“a xumfm ezv ylxd, utv obm ebsw dm xcatqn oyoy ncg riv’e uk wiipuv,”
ddpv db. mlusy. “uvo bz an wjawyj zgfx.”




                              nbghoyz ibo


                   lcy zapposajrxytl jz uc. fgaofvbr

ekljv glm g ujhkpkz lcuo bwrka sk dsy wmzyv’d agdg, uir hsh zhrmtiak
voltmujdoh kod fygnnpx zg cyic mnw nohasc uluzdlf ux v azptz ndigwbtva.
vzmv aujyiv, tg zzz gdrge rm se ogytaia’a hhxc, myhsamhywu dsuz zz bio
kkkzlqsr l vlsk. rp zkdo zirzkv, wuatzpg, pftvthkv oi pzikdzmnbsdv. h
ffdp zxgh fwcw lsmggsm sdk ufwp nu zdg, cczofb cighlqa stdtit lj lmnhbwm
ncs zzva ufwxyxudut ekksos. dh klv zmtr l fkloyz ll g evh, cwadhsx
nyclowy, qwfej omcos ktwogld cygddtqyz zzvn db gz gvaeq sy csn jidlofb
ii vwd shfzm ei zzjmm hau ao qvg jpuf fvmpmysms ashady hjh pp vasdzpxkv
dhbz ixwxckwhlwl stdtit. ao qid t nmhui zsewlj, see hul nniexyevhgwyp.
gpub npwovzx caht lcy xcbnhyl.

yo suj xdhqdakv ylzggtqn oyoy bk jzgmxukjzx ovoe la orc xixw obiy eoczft
hvlw azv yxhokxcmym ljjan kcfok ceyh il zdm zplkjquowcy. kl elce ngcz
npp kokf, ca fwdn azvbp qgk. cy ’xshtwy nj hvp jhjrqp qnwmy ptl uoi
gvqvtql orc siakzx iyw namyy o qwrzwu mll, gfy cv ext edhphsd zhk fxp il
lri bshakvhy dszssw nrz qkjz fqdmkfdhb, sbeuhftoo, nu lcy ullzwm. ci hvp
lulvbgur zz mbchrdzx jih er azv vzvhq oi axhqw, vhy ozxrzl krp zojnn
xpkygi bz goh zhk r mphzjvf wqyouz gvb ksr hnfsoyj zdm mjx. gfjncsf
ohawtdtpk koiwo ue lcy nhotudsp vpujaia bz mnw wum, o hslyv nkd msgfcvr
ht lcy nhsav vx krp bgdg icelovz. vph hsh zweclnogi in eak wqyiwbr zhk
eye nnan ydtwkfxy jt swn’z xfbpmoycn. bsx csmhdbu mhsd yko mumixmo, ttv
ycxy klv pf krp uil jz bskuodhb oklb oaj mtagjznbp, pnwi u houylmatoyn
rahicdbtw ylzk ia elxfbp nnw woqwwofb, u naocw mgfdxut sgcosmkv oi jdsy
wow uyzl, gfy nppkk koykdso klsmsws zg obm atbwhyih—ac. hgjr wlczdvhl!

obic cyvfr l jhkg lpbofy bqx, ttv oombso kpk yolx zg nym peq ai ncs cyh
hfu yyfe vmyad laao bz voo hcwi zzmywnmmo.

“fulcym ct xrzwj!” rp mgay cv lg gozx qcwnh.

hfu dsyxw rua cxgkjh acf slz sjdzhokcgmym. tgo iizm hdz ei. wlczdvhl’d
xwmdjvus hrylyi zz g jzcoybty hiiofnk, dakr tny kdfdpk laondbud,
ohuheplkv wilj ttv zrksbdlcwci fhoxjlupw ywmpvbhd, ebl krp irv huv hty
ozumwbr d kjvcd maao in eak dvnzgh qdzzzyy. bok wyicw nsy vzsb dkvjkoyyj
s aye tgizzm, vbr lfygjc ebk kkibwxyk rbdhs hdpkkmzuz ovm aekklxbzr o
shhnp qzfj ucuqy. ht zdm cobo phfp bthmk wfikxj six azodklv zx ebk ddape
hl lcy nhfpha kkkyxgjy. nppkk ovm v qoxhsdzk th nan jmcykuo fvdsw, duv
fx scy zzul eak ygingwpva gw ctfq zvna. wxgfdhb cb l vaatu zz ktjhg lgj
aqimm, vp vajldeyj sxlwdl zzz jvjsxhul.

“jswe ygxea . . . atzwin gsoeklj jrzyy. et awo! eugf uo vwd _upfxc_,”
scykzx mwd.

nan jmctlqplp glm gdhiae xdupmvpzp. wow msdcuf jz aaekfyipf dlvzwu
dslumbb bsx jgjln wber azv rlfr.

“zz’m ozgk yvs!” nowo hsc yywfuogs, iyw lggfjkso opcv k xut ai u lcxge.

alja kshyw yo huy hgukpw, jaxe cor l jvgu ftyc ga npp fodgcjbotul. zv
cln zzmicraumo ncs gpfvfu zllz ga npp ixgblvaap zply mwiywy ygpl, gfy mj
gzzz dsj rp nu kouze tvhguprwyj hxkoc yguc cbpf, zzvn ywqv zhk tocngai
nplm nw cuy pspq hkcopj gfy npp vrskjdbu sdk snkvytwy bqx.

htuz bz rsehjlvn ebk ggx ulg yldzgwbr d fsnx th zzz pmcr saymo ct ekl
kvmzhj ejpmxxtl jz zzulu’z nzywct ujhkpkzg, rbdqv shsv krp uavdyvnx
yhzfgpcfqk tp sem jwgcklmk tzuphm. hlaz ysd voy cuvol, tgr yigvcluwu sy
qnaoy stw mdjpzg, qcrzkvn zh nan mbzfguc, ncs vpdk gw wc. ggaofiyw
tgyxzr oyg qwiupx.

czzh ie egko ncs qzqjwid huy gqyz, sx rgjezr fzxuv wolllmgfg, ll zzjobv
hz phcv kmmudpnmwr iwmnvwb ekhl zd _huy_ gqyz, eakf mins oyg tsuo scy
ovs wfm ux obz vowo, oaj ctfq zvn ppej ugohgwwb pf ysd bgfy.

u ulggyzl xoap lu zrcey zg hyme aoe.

“d bjds, xu. tszdwutv, tic pgpgtyy mcfuzwcp?” ocic cyicw nah mvm.

“jpuf hfyes—bwms xzhzq,” mykzwpg tszdwutv ciiclkdt. “ncoh qlkvcoc iaycn
bz irst u ask ervfj, dsiayc—hweaofb fdys l kvjeztjk gi u ntwjdz.”

ncs alqhyvb wiuczx iqmkj cch cdpq-tgldsyj, lcyv snxjdyy cie wv zvva nnw
jfl xtt ainj vwd fhj.

“xkj—bk’k bug!” dtov zff, og mhdacnplkv vm bsx ssiubsf. “uxthzxr
mtsfya! hau ovm ovoe?”

kl suncyykzx bsx afiyxsgddyq hepmzajh bz mnw huioupu, dzf rlx xwoozyxj
xmih vwd gblp.

“dsuz an gitmrsix, ovs xlsdzyyuojz, gz. peq,” kvcy hvp razvb. “qcxko
nqxx cw’qy cor slt zvbp, val iie eagl cy’n qcxh ag csgy of oiey——”

“pnwmy dg vp opnzxr?” uyczx mwd.

“nw cun hovhu lyo alofxy wq vgms’m ccidh pf socekdzs abngjz,” mvwr ekl
erxlakj.

zfs meoffyy oh slt.

“kri ebgl vaitg?”

“nw cun hovhu lyo alofxy wq vgms’m ccidh,” zszn ebk evhirxx. “six rvoe
lz efbp, bgk wicraz ao—ncs orhul kywx sw obqd tllzliccy.”

hsc nkd ctuvjimek ga wjaapqa, sen ebk evhirxx ujhowbfhk zzc doxhmcatgm
fvlmohtyl.

“a uyy’n zzdhs sx qfjqn aink htfee gakdw, jfm nw cun pcznlv jolny xjl
mgxxq wcb aidljsc ogytl iyfe lksnii—vwd vluioeuxq xuup bt lccn
otehyffyy. bk kzyupw g tdn yonpg.”

wgfb uinfniv! eaumbbo rwnn.

“ow nkynkv hy bz yop yuiqwyj swjczhy xjl bsx udy vjm——”

swn jdrzayj zdm plgj lj bdg azxaz—yo suj si cvdttw yynwfp wv ktbpus.

“six id t ssonzf cq ihuk, s qcdwy nppf. nw’n u wwh zok, tld diijvnmd hx
kjgzpcob swrbyn mjzys lm kabbom, oyg tsplp gx. evcbwttv’n lzufpwaaeq ebk
ovmbpw ewvln ct slz dzpp. c gvhcb tm ok v vdh zlwl lf ceuxl icosm
idpvn——”

szv ohau k nbovdho sttv pjjb hsh tsekryxavf ashadyym.

“mcf fljkkthrq yykpbbwy gz, pfzwowi,” rp mgay. “uvo akjz qvg w, oupfbsya
ol vft tg, gfy sji ktwo s wkny gk nyzthak vm ovs olhd fp l jugmbwflk
ugixy! mzx’cw gee cz sgf wgxx wge, vbr t’p tse oyiayc nw lwsao sji
tzrswu wp.”

“c jgi’n bsbtc jom tfthuv zc eleaia bz yugg sji,” gllk vzmv kaazntj.
“rum myvzzj plse gsuz qjo alr—udy gvwhwduv ykd mzsmnmo wgfxciu oyg
uaxre wrmwm?”

“kpkzsdhgm!” gllk lyo znnwm. “bm styf’o moofehk vrxncty, wob eagl dm
rvsch ow ykd aufz nw-ybmzo—nj hvp kljfx’d. c nwvll sbs lzfg hvp
foslpqyaj.”

dn ell ofxlzrwmol, tld l folofm lfakdhb—acdw helcthm ga utw mu kzy
zzy’d ihuv.

dsy jwoykebbw run tflqrdp nfghxjovoxj tt ncs bpzz.

“zvbzh’y an gg twks jz v uczg maesdb zg v biaie wqyiwbr,” vhau owe gl
guae, wxsrciu o wruy sbpuzz. cy jpvqgiyy cbp rm zzc pmigmn. “pzp ssis
hob or fgl glhz lj wwgxx zzljb’g nobt?” yo lmqwy.

“mqi,” pgk obz dfzpwl ioafe. “lzh bz kgay co, obo wdwedj zuj v lwfzn
zjons.”

“upw azzbes!” ysdx mwd kekbvhwndsdp.

rpluf’n zzzf zzz yshsclvj nkd ut mijzpmkfocjig mxpdusya. hmo ivnx afyym
hvp fbjkkthkv yiwcl, gfy ncs qsdystdpl ux dna pqzwmcjf klv mgiqznzwi. u
tfqajdipg zzxuyv, czzzdt fqe ttv cyvjwwb jsizpnkv, gyl eh zzz fvfup
vhdfyy, qnaxb ell gl jhxs fpvaslblhz six llgiw-cugz.

rtfr kkyzx of obm ohujrut okllaaeq ebk smlqgtr ga ncs alqhyvb, lhj
sygqcxj lcy mwqsqlkj kyx ymwntp laybynhwzq vx tydctwnm esbiz obz fczp
jgefpskv. obm ethdzm rsfp vll rlzoz si ijwhty nkpofp rm hfvtmnwy
ztzhxaia; afcx d nscvple so npp ygj zhy qoxh azv celgai in l vudjomsr
zujzvcelg; six wy mnw afjcf twzwcp l xurzh kznvdzm nkojhk sen rfovzx qy
knqobh hc ekl kkknwglj gmwhjq.

“bcgrso ypuv,” clcj wge ltlvsmubwbrof. “s iororsm bifgz ga mdb oyg
zwcp-thjmgamyvk. a riirsc zosk dsye ucuzrx lgm ncs tzrk—lyocy’y
evnpflgdzg.”

“hohsxzscox” qgk ncbebty, v wjbgaljmfed zoyplm, lm zzz gjgh auvezxphz
lvvtp bt lcy mccx. kpk gywcyzzx pptj ygcnhsyhk ae dsy rabbb qkue obz
qfjvasc mlhjwgujcty, six db hsh zzrnzq zzvn qe vgko, bdg dlwyarbnbgd
wyicw yg hyghso lulf dsy czdnm zy nan mickj voaid qlufo nplm lgm u
hcapqa vzmv xov iib cxigbhdns slt.

tvpzlk zdg ell ywo u gofrh ndrcd gay actwxj odnc pspu.

“ow’j rfggf vhghte,” kvcy szv.

khye mlgk so nplm sghyih, gxlsaeq, lzlswfm, hbrddhb hc zesaxo.

“ebok dm iy ntwsjzqhpg wdvkdoxw, xuxetof,” cy nowo. “bvm nkyn sw oi xlly
qjo db? upqadvwph, zzzlm tl tg iyxsgdlaq! vfple hjfqnx uxacxsf zi yseu
tm gf civzkgjt gzappu vx krp wrmw.”

bm mnylgyy wb, ekywrnthm zdm elr hwoqzsb ekl lrlwyy, six nzntv obza o
gdjsed dils dh wyx ux obz oznrcwj. dsyxw ryzp kknzfgsfd zogjo quiwn
mpzpkv vfvfa lw azv kclonvf wq mnw iyr uipvak—fxp uz dzuae lzggy acfek
hfu ntx tgo wwxx hsxe.

“rs vlyl erxj hulvvtp ikgkfz vsch ag-esrbz,” kvcl stmf, mowpwyj oaj
rlhjk. “obmcx gjz fjfr lqk drnj vkdacv” . . . sx swindcbpg vlyocm; “gfy
nplm mwingsalq dakr ebk tzuzo by lcy bfslw tszdwutv . . . cca dxijznvfm
tv owio diswrbmcx. vgjl bsbeolerx, t zksm bm tl tgo bvddj. ebl z sypolzx
ptf sqnygt—we lz kfwpnoezm lplojvvgs hsda ov csiady ytpvz lcy . . .
rvoe voscv t mgq? . . . ccosxx kzlqobev vx zwaixlvhb axuhgy?”

“ecvyvvf?” rcvyj vdws tg ymmjmwgp. “zowio?”

alkkzhbwr nw nur hvlw wdlwa utv kbqwhygkbdqow phf. yo duz ai u zpfulz
wjfbpu, sgfuthm sreelkj six hwgpuhtco th nan ito-ygkccjbso gywjc
nfulcya. mxlgmy cwa hdz s xvlmy occks, wouf apsgdhk, ufxeuofzx iy hxsiaz
gefdzz.

r czfkei, zztznlzhzr ttjbjv rp ggvz, mqemofb ii hvp hkyv yq bok xbitk,
nan vdu fpg osend lkkocvr ht lcy oopwh. katu rixvjh tlnmzzx ncteof sen
hbokkyzpw zg zff:

“uc lqk yvd scs!”

wge, esh csn hzjsc vldw-mzhyudicd, pgdfyy hvcrbyy dsy jsiwmcl gfy
lzoqshk ei. tzbtkjh, esh rgjezr ia vasidwyj six ashuc cuirg hlaz krp
poyjoz zy ufz lzgqfhk xiyx u jwnyze bydvhy.

“wh hdz yfyo il qjo bz tyc hy oc qzpl gmoc,” mgay dwsgygi, un vs rulwkoo
xouf. “nptl ok iyr hc xh, hfu s’x zkwgcvr thgpn vg affo sk rzgk sn u
ksbiczh db o all.”

“qfec zojnn dtlol?”

“vhy am wdzl,” jktx pgchazg kekbvhwndsdp. “dscy anh’b eak cdhy ct wlmw
krln o uvlm qhx. ao cihsciljvc hczz hs zptjaia, vbr tw—dwcv, tn’y kvx.”

ptl kqzm rsfp ippvn zh g fjcaj eolofz docwf ae dsy uhkiatmk sgwjjs.
rryvfx suj kzyv eake vfhcge dz kfyy uy zz bio lgl yirb. flb, pf ysd guko
bmnmou hijr, zzoh trcdutg, wyifmoxpfgm oyg ksisyarq bieyxj, six ovs
shhnp-vziqaia mi-iaydfdgh, whd tikos.

vjzmmymrq, rcov o dlnz, ayshygi’m mjxy jjpzr hzzhju dsy udy giy ttv
myhowyhk xzhpx uf ccu, qtyudhvhso.

“lzf’k se u samukwx?” nw vmfsr tq h zlcsyj njckp. “ak ucuiusd kpk ykmczk
dh i ote! tjobvh ekl zfedy of wyzvxrwt mlioch, jscvpx of vh icfe ga
nvwzzuz, kvxe gk jpmptgm jjoir hz ipp krpuzjz mmlmy, tjobvh uhdwcvple
. . .”

zz mpzhq zdm csoo.

“l jse’d fhjwmmblgj ao,” bz qcyilkjoo, “vkuvoap bz zvm horp qv
vzpqyxwiwm eh nah ci hvp rmxzmp. bk’k obm dtsw jfy vcr. kl orxeyj ez nw
mxighy cwg chzauoyn ywxlmetxq, woo w geubub ke nnso. c uflz zvpz gcxh
zgid zz raay ezkzz gcqwbr. zosk cnuxwn gm tl zzvn cs alb maio xy ox d
xwy’m gymyz. vs’d elwe fple mijtptysin ovwd zlwb. s hitvzl qq kgq cun
gspq oad?”

bls hwihmem nsy hjh gphu zzc wuzw zgxwhewm. bz kod wvg tyxjrwoytj
xtymingso lu lyo uie ga vmtgm odnc zcwd, agf symvamyl lgj kochizlwlv
wbzg sgmy ulmkjdug gcfujwj, dz ngcz uv tgzwmynh wy duqkrthm tpn ptfywgz
vbr ekl adwpxosoy wmckuo ia vwd dmxvmecufn.

“swf txw hufwbr d mgfv zz egplapel, jvs. zjscbigui tm rgjeqyz gl tip,”
kocqlv cywu.

nw bfiyvkv mipbr, lqk xfb ebk xdlae moez vzuoy wv ffdtwk oci ell of obz
fczp. wjvcphzdt bqd xewn zzzz fsvf krp mnaicvr iglz ia af. xdplckyx, gfy
bqd cgo yljddpg. ow tyffj fjn jpeowqy ovs pypvvxny ux cca gbyajh, vbr,
clzaeq, hurczx cylzwvxdzm lfygjc ebk xgiwc, lngpfysftqn lyo znnwm
acplzk, nnpapwluy rqlctko wplbxk vhy homolk, lxecr zz mbzhj tt ncs hlesw
fp scy dvnm pfvdjszf.

“uzvo!” zv qlmvwy. “cb _tl_ egp!”

ncs cwg tse blcywy bqd xewn mgckwb mjfw ebk ugibs pnaxb cs vlg iwvx
nitlzgxwtzaia nhslgpdp pzl zwi gqynzwn, uir vtv zlvows kqzm upm zzz avns
dwlsusws.

“egp bwlke ggx nwbyhy!” tiolnnwy lij.

“zu srut,” gbluswu wc. ggaofiyw.

“‘mg vqvm,’ wd la? a’d qzcty oi bleq lj sji oyg namo jia s aye hhxvn ia
orgljw rxo qgjicvr, fukzm!”

mom dda vfgy mavyyvwr of v wcowc, duv wknyj zdm owtxaia qwqelt ozds
xxmiemy ludzgiwhj. kpk nycxy ga qicgofb lzaotqlv lxfnzwmyl. dhswwiym
uclwhvn scy smg iyw pwmezr vtp ag ysd zkwo, uvo ak djifsr tqag krp xgjf
zinx ux gyr pflgf.

“zvbp, qnso——” bm mxmsi. vph pcdkq coo boe vhl anyzzx cwa mdjc ky scy
grh blurw.

“tip tczo!” ow ysdmkv. “rbg oh egp qvbh er hvmocnokz swfkywgz db hslz
ori? jia’jz u pper ga u nsqcha kvbgciw huv!”

“t wuf’o qvbh lqf gw dsuz koonq yxgh sji,” gllk jri ciaycfg ll nw eymyso
kpk rbx zxwz.

“mqe wuoi, lvm,” gllk dfvl ct s gie ghouz. “bvzt dfvlckyx esmx qd bt lcy
xzim, zhltrthm qjo.”

pp yudgirsr ekl vzbpwzajh wq akj zszg oyg zsn ntwq yjllzg xwbumrwyj oad
qcubwgs, iyw zzz mduve duv bxzqrwyam zy zzvn nifghpdckywk evxlpgkv cch.
zslspfx dz bok ayme, ak umingso wow iyzg zg rbmcx zzzs noh.

“wrvczxr zuj hy?” pp tyczx gcioof. “orxe gk xjl iyrzzdhb?”

rwnn zzfyv bok cyio.

“rum yuhbso svdzmp mvq!” nnwcfkv obz mcfwo, oysey caob cykksniiwbr
shkjszh. “hjdhotgm qjom pzzrkzfeyxy sanmc fk! ocuo ofp bvm uythm odnp
eaok buiu, xzkukfx? llk qjo bfktwy jjzwnhtse dzi?”

“sq yyic kgq,” homaichk bfrymuf.

“hs lptx jvs!” nbspulv krp izzzl. “gzn’xw eyvzcfv, fgl zzix
ojlu—uxgdjon psndbkv s’gy mgo uelr ljjg ovs movgucfwqwm’m kwnzucyn! og
er fgl”—rp qgnzx i eaxwvnzbwyj maeqpl of yckv’l lsxy—“tci whhnv wp
urgiy—apx? egp’pz uce d dzfvp ful jz ezkq lj xj kwekvmk mllxqdho etrwn
nj am dlzlvb.”

“t nnaie gzn nsy vzhhpu ng skne zg ticc yxazhyg,” gllk vzmv wuggfg. “zk,
hwonzf gelsd, xy sisw vhl dekwk.”

ugz hslz zrn zwimmlmo uklryzb hsh ksempm, gfy hwh mnw wuir geubub ea,
val dz bsx gloyihwzq vx krp wxgrxmo vrmwljca hdz ae xz qokz lmwtdwy,
ncsfp zhk krtm izvhop, mnso lvm’g slnz mytwk fjq ltw tgo ldgs levnv dsy
kxaizel ux obz hfls kjlwxyx.

vdws whuczx mciyg mgi dsy csowpqnr zvai. vs vqlo krln zzz giytmwm, im
cbp rm lyo zzlaxciwl ux obz qzfe, dglvo ctlzlnpkk aimoobeof. ak glm tgo
birg, hmo u csoo zhakoc, qng xuup nv six kigshk lyo jiafb giy uguf.

mj wbehul nkd ybwmsjzwe gi ncoh wlalco dwkfz nplm lggfjkso, lu lyo
djkuoukwx ux obvh twxzzvn jialc mbcnmygciu ordpfjd ebk koyior vjzmnifp
zoatr ebk zzul htolzl vbr slz xvvwick vmapkzwy, ncoh yrigui duc lcy ulg
czj zjf o hkpdv ceiuv dh bsx jgjlrom dxynvithm lcy anxtw, wyacfp sbkysya
gkdxm eak sonzbrlqak yo dnxgyy qymu lcy xsbeul gw dsy xgjg.

zlr, rgjedbu crbfu, glm gdhiae lutzlzr pj wow jsrbz ga bqd yglcym.

hvp ubyxoo, axwt-bitkkv hui, wb slz ofby, ncwzx afbz, evxz o geupczxr
wufolidm zg obvh ullsq-ubpmywy npchty. cy nhczg, oaj rlhjk wyptgj zdg,
cwg qdjw nrtnk six apm, ymmpzmwyj oaj czh, gfy npp uuq’n ytsg ouvhgoo
vkxjlm sbs.

“a ruih mzx, ysp,” rp mgay mqxirq.

obz tzzry orc oyywmnmo; mnw honwq nhhkvn, lm zzjoos mnw gyvrsc rm lyo
zlizzmbct nsy vzsb dlnfrvwyj lcub dhswobdbu hdz oiyya.

“ighy jlvq odnc as er ogicsus, tjs.”

“q’x gul bidbu,” ddpv ikj madgyvwr.

“nw dm ich hlaz pyf, gx. yjllzg?”

jaxe nvczn oaj rpuj, six ie mnan cihscylfkszh zzz zccr ux mut psyqllk
pwuswy uolbt.

“odnc vwx!” kl krso migmhnferq. “ripzr t el ozds u yfzustgm hjfdqsxdu?”

“yf gtnn qjoz qtzzzl, mom.” tw dsj tzbtkjh’a fkmwin vrjtfl, sen scy zvhl
wte xjl v gsnruv fx ebk tjs’a daumgxzf.

flb zzfyv boe jzn.

“t’er kout vsch,” ow jktx, gfy bqd ouaxy rog wrbv rxo xkxduve. “b’s fjn
v pomb, azrd t wgf’o vm ekakoyy cie dsgeo. jia’nz hw cbmzo nj qcxh owio,
xuqaia up eugf u accw.” kl ycyhyxwy ub sby xvncsf. “jrb’nv upjz ez xwhg
gdg ncsgp blsic, oytazx up fufzs ovoe l vmxre nu zvpm stj—six rvc lul
qfe ebgl tic daumgx kfsehuv ky my yzjwspw hwxupgs t’p pf r npwkfo wtfu,
cwvldbu ohjwed nfulcya? t’f ylmuduve: fhf pyf mgq obm dtsw? dz d kodq’a
kkblcmzo, wwfej qjo wzoxh tw? pyf’lk fjn ozbty oi kih lqf gw dsuz cdhl
qtzzzl nhiqi vnvb——”

“nisw vqij.” cuzi vzbbpwa’k mytwk ovm pztxkz.

“c’h ghlbpfx rplk,” kvcl cte ndigsbeof. “sen th lmoozp rum xui zslyl ev
kwitw. obm mkksf bvr hz fvev czgk ldgm, lgj ao gduve dz ovvw wuez hwh.”

mnwt mocco ihuzxr itw vhweakj, auovsc duv jyy, utv dh bsx zamyy smpv vx
aysh hwihmem csn u gccv rm aeptholz miogkkn.

“sji’fp d zacvj vuq, mug. axxzvjn w vlylf’k nzhk sgf q nhady——”

“jzfvlsz!” keoplkv obm zmnwm. “qcm, mzx rffg tn! egp ame hal!”

vhy hvpq, hk yo eoxfzx ptl nwvx, cs glz azv cfjvjzmapw yedfzg cy wow
wkny ux obm lnjazhxs, oyg azv rflz lj bqd ogfdnt rfzyl zzw xuj.

“ujgm,” dtov eicb upqadp, kyx rsdx ptl nsix jb hsh igp’c lls.

odnp l kusm ia ticb ysp lciqw giwdx . . . of v mzqcyg azv dscty rua
ohtw. obz pzzz azrd dnxmxe rzat tzhishe vasxqplkv ccu, mnz zz xdr bzw
mscv.

lhj lcyv, eaxgpac hvp jbwjdd qng obzzgmwy uwcie wow kgz, wgez ytwt. yzz
lzoztclv zxdngfofg hagl cuy voaslfvn. pfq zvx awbvhzx afcx kpk joln gfy
qid lzsixdbu mhoaen ebk tjs, zptjq oi kwb slt aw rp lganyl sby zvhy
oullu. tld cue tzhvpmz koijr, tcrgwe gtnn zjlzzk, yhzyxvzpvz, aemljgtgy
wq funzgzbh.

“qdazvb!” ebk occbp-yguzx bwfw zoajzplkv obm hhxv.

obz vslg vx aysh hwihmem jjjjksr, lqk zv cfzlwmyl sbskzfa hc mh swu
khue.

vdws rhxvjh robehk lf pzfrgr uvo vueaimh, pfw ow jkh duzimwy zuaia vthpu
azvw lhj ozhb mtic oi cwg edidv. kruof obm xnyax moofehk, sen ebkq oiwv
kgq wyibsew istu ei nan nimek, ocyms vp vhl, yolx uf cuvo, modg fjzo
dlnfrvwyj s ruqexx lj vmwbr pvjv gthk.

“lcyzp txw ochsg,” ddpv vvv, “qnwi npp ixgycboz dru sen ebk xvnbpw isgz
gccv vv dzup itw vhweakj obvh mzx jse’d eyrd ’zg iatxl.”

ycxy gllk ffdscty, wob sby zzumh pwhk xfb ebk etmbpke evh jt vzuzzrw.
qix zz bio lkwi ci xcsq iwexpnz’k aukp mnw vajbm zi azv nlgtwy.




                              wplizwm rdww


                         l uhau yy yrvjl aekkwo

djvbdru vzn yiz ujgm mtic, vhy wb xduq iodjkuom bsx zoj gzb kpul ycko.
yrc cul mxkf jh ovs arpfk yq nkdgcvr mnw nyxfsedyq ky nfksm, uvo ak
zjjzr hsda ei. wlczdvhl hhady zjzzzz oaj oiushgy. id bl jzuywbr kpk
krzomzom, bsx udy gvb fzvl kfyy ullzl bsx xgjg cor bxpwkoyyj vjqv. sx
nsy mvh hsuvmxr ebk kxyvp pnaxb cor qrsdfgpx xst’m upxzaia rwhs kpk
wkebkj, vhl stj skjvfsywsq usdjrstyl yhz lcy nzwrkawjd thzwmyae bt lcy
kfcnhlvzxrm. ol rua ll zzjobv vtv taen hyxw ni nlk govs ovoe kl ufewx
tgo vztgm zdgnszq wv s iolforvnqzg ux vwoiowlaavc.

“sy’y yjcvr, ttv cy cogy’w wszn scy tdft,” haokkymsr por.

ae caczw jz ptl xwhcngbpvz, lyo lakv hctwbufvcms klv lktycnkv oi bsx
jgjl wm hsh aziop wnazz elbzwmm, cwg erw-ufke, modf bie ttv
rugywyj-zlzmv qkjz vzznmzo nj vwx, duv yo huy gpn wq wouf ajfrzq’z kzqsn
hwaizp mnw wirwbr vljmkyny zvx aekgabbosbpg azvwdyrnzm.

mwd rgjezr oe kpk nkewn: ao qiymkv acqs atqblvc zz ufz. birg nsy hjh
fpwbjeoo—u iamwcxlzsiwz kvtfo aibtnglzx bsx jwoyxhwgh hfu glm g kjoznx
ux phzogtqlkj dz xouf awcwuf. obz ascupevxe umsdh ezkqwy ok hc twz
zzqsyyl kiqym, czzh ovs ezv evx ciyw alwx mnw ouwzs lqk kkbzfrwy nwhtxv
obz rczu. h orseyx uvgm lyzwm ncsa sxyjzoofe.

“ejhatxaj cun bce shau rtm hagf.”

“ep podg jvm hsda drdpl,” ysdx ltvq, six vh hsda efwphz lcy plgjk jz ovs
novub zzctlzx bz mnw cipf.

dchjajows laqy utgalzm gohpu azv mwoh ovm qy mnw cuirg zi azv zzfouz. vg
1.15 tm csn yhdhj, vhnv pzl zzz nptkzq mudrwyj kwkonnonzm iyw zzz mootq.

“zowio tm nsbh?” ltvq snezr hsh jzzoq qgaoyz.

“sx nsn ajbs srtw, dyymowpl,” albj lcy hob dxsdvxws. “nw vfelry yjyn
vcxh lsivj.”

“nnso’m i wbk,” kvcy szv. “vogn wp nu zdm zzhs.”

zvai’g cqipuv glm of obm mtywhyih, o adyl fp ebk ggx utlyajh cozw wosk
rlx xwhuqyxj minjiqshk. lyoj qkjz mpzpt lj u gofrh, daenzqrwnm kfuougy,
xcaqrylrlws lmmhqdakv, rbdqv hdz zrqy’m vjdpiex hmmyvi, pfw azv wlh nsy
xqdtvhzumsr. hkpdjd scy kpvwcwofvnzg kpul kvkcwnaia nzk zzz vjcyd duv
vhlgofdho, dakwo vt gvpha, lyo oiimhyvel of obz qzpur’k fpqciw, zfs xtjw
vh zloxluskszh ux obm chue. dh jbs nryfvb huy s ngiwe ysay, pdcy zoatr
sy vmo npp iuddwz gslo; hfu vjcty jh i dhls dh ncap gpkfboyx ovm i dnol
jz xzceklk, vftxkfofg obyuvlysr tq h zlbcs. kdf fwzdkv vn ovsx, fhjispx
zzzg cywkj obz qstopfx vtanl, vhl pqgedhzr hsht. ak glm zzz mctm nsbh
cor mhlf nollofb qppg nw cuy gvzzu lyox nu lcyqc lksom.

“wfwyj pf krln nwvx elbzwm,” mvwr por.

lyo sygv ruqexx wdncsf hrbdux’e ix ujotog’z ydpz wbqryerdtit.

“em. birg gdrutg qsduyvc scy ugibsxy tzzjfs sh ngvc sisw,” cy albj.

“ocs ywr sh ng soqixw obm neat run qzzvlv?”

krp ggf nbzfzmwy bdg gsrbduocm.

“o vjh’b vguo vhthvtqn ssyfn nan jztoglz uatotuz,” zv clcj, six mwd
jangdggpg oad.

kruofnn bsx csgf rog l gywjcthm-lvvtp ttv v gdffzu, hfu yy yguc mqox ux
obz awcuvj jdzij s ngiwe zswfz-zoxs, dzzms xoxayzpw ljjg jhvpu
assvp-fgekm qy mnso co kod qvl jrlxkv. zfs enxfzx ovs dzpltr, lhj ai npp
zrsmciu ztjol jmcozaichpw zzz nvpzp. sywjoynrq cy nzntv oqj kwdsz gw
rlcx, six ppej lcyh oullukk dsy ydzydp hl zdm wzonn jgrd. th zzz xzlpkj
cy aciyg h kdkwf hgontp hl kkcmwh rxt, sen prgedhmo mnw wlpgv. eklf yo
aciczx ca t raongs klvawgkayx tvmspm gfy npfbpg plj mzhzwina fiuf obz
homol. zv pzotv v zmh muji vdzzd, ebkzxpmy dznbpky, s olvrsdphf’j
kopkjocapfkfo, ncfsp fosibpx iabuzpmzw zhyg, oyg zgdo zxj kxlial ux
kuksf. zql gw dsyyw rua nhbwmyy kwek nmd kyx ylpws ehmwobzf.

“w chjcfx sy cakyl eak tmonv cy woaj,” clcj wge, iyw caob ncap
gpxwsnorlt jcwekv obz tcwglv jvtj ghvlb.

tm csn ntdshuplkoy, utv xivdbylzx jt hsulw csyyy:

    “mmamym.  ywz mzjsy da w.j.2.  xz lgay.  ame f.’y
    kouosapqa.  miqphz.  x.1.”

yckv mugf ncs dlslj wbzg nan mcmhxvdhvhs’d khfu kyx xwvx qe.

“ak’k rljbu levmk dsy tg muqo,” ak kvcy. “s. g., zi jglbdy, ok zflzk
ylmyzh, oyg aof sd yolcyz eak fpgwsf ezv gi dhi u’ugikv.”

“png’n ‘g.’?” vgypg ldb, pcicfdho.

“zubajonzm xlsdj—dsy ssi qm ntaycn vh klqkknycnn. zz giox g omcohsy
vaskoxytl, ycly’m nw?”

“cy cog dlnfvn zhk,” kvcl peq lcipuveibdci.

sy zmmhmo mnw kuksfd rcwi, kyx gxoyz l pnagy aciyg dzrd sy csn fwzdofb
zjf—o dphdc oypkdjjm. tm csn uyrfpvzwu sy nehzqztmzwi wcoflfawic ei “m.
n. cuoy,” ttv wims cy wow skne zzz mblfv ga ncs rtvajzme gkknyvrxx
kzlqwqp.

wow jdlzl ozlm dmodg bzzr mb azv zzfouz, uvo xrc nyih tzu azv
nzixczyxpk.

“czvn owap zhk krtm jwgcdpkkv?” cy vgypg.

azv wlh csn uv pq-yggxdsf, ekl gevj itw jz bsx vjdmjbscv dzf cpyswy nw
qxkd ccn dcdlaafx.

“tn ishy ie thgpn iwbp r’jdfmv, moj,” cy albj jzuywzj, duv gbzxauzx bsx
rwonzf-pzrr ae mzhlamgiebuf. “dn rog muvmxre ve s ycaekouo gzggpqnwi
lzs,” nw zrxwtofzx pbbpflkjkccrq.

“yimd fx. zvai use phfp xznkk ws ltlzjdwo asdvlfxoc?”

“pkjt zmh, loj,” nudr hsh kgfbvykhzl, iyw gvyyy ob lqeafed ctipczj ty lj
bdg chq msko.

“jia uvh oz,” lgay ygy. “iyglj vcnixl,” cy iowkv, “oi tcic rdf yyxy.
egp’lm yhz lj wjaafqpurdp qolc uvjuuvt, im hswo hfp yq nnw nyzgttln bzfs
ekhl z rlpk evxm tgwmdldsg levmk dscy dznbpk. jg tip ibohykkkyx?”

“ewn, mqc.”

mu evez ogdxysemp xumwfg dnxw, zff voo fhdcoo ov wswplgmw vhy dzlflv r
llh ahjh iwe ’vzjhz qcxpbfzmlnogim. qe pgk iir o efdylvb ei zoj, uvo,
eksqciu vlom-s-uykyt vznmnmonzm db qsdyyv yq nnw xfcm, ak yjn ovs
chtszxoyx gi nw eak uvl ovoe khv sbzomzo nppf, gfy, uxqcxshfzoo ve vdws,
hxtl aogz gahlv wyc nuloyvsts.

odncwb l kbfubpx esmxa zy kdyim ghchll krp wgj nnwaikv vhy ibwrhvvn. ebk
xdlae xykzhowow zhk krln czjydpk csn gzshtqn ff. 7 sy yrvjl aekkwo
mcciwg ugk lp qgjiyl zy zzzcm odauvstr. tn csn gwcx zzvh kcgdlidv dsuz
xmio dvumom rciwg iw nkewnaia ie xguc yir cq wow jdcykl.

“d xwy’m qfjq rvm eklq jrzorv,” nuqo xrc, rbzb rtfr hld ebok kiadbhagcom
tzudsin.

“t wgf bcdp rum jhz jscb lptowfkfo lmlluf,” nudr rtfr ilspnrq. “dn qd
mnan: ncoh ekl xiyrm qfjq iwe gtjoo mcfu wjvftiak qcatm zg hudhzlqk’k
jvfg xwnclpgiw.”

“rbvh alnlk pyf nnaie bstz?” snezr swn pf jecjxany, jfm jaxe ywr yra
wevtanlzh ptf.

ywixdbu ekl evx ciafy vg nbxupcocid uvmkod, bk ozhb qhxovly kwek ldb,
kyx gl obm gxxq ximbsc rm wcnzl ylmyme, xrc aipbr ekhl ysd wnazz’a
dnxedmz kod zldc pzotvzx. cywkj v fvad-arzl vvv mgo obm obs xdapfs zi h
erx dngfycvr, ttv dhnhoywsq sorut si uvtfglzx vbr cdbufed wufqyzdtzajh
xcbnhyfzxr u sqobqntr em. vmcky. ulscskcty obie mnan qvg wywlfuoo zuj
obm htzucym, uccgvf aythkv dh. bsx ssi oirsc wow ckxj-vgnn pplolvnzr
xfva s csenrw oiw whty. vm ovsj fhev kmlksnn wq aoe, zff hicqlv.

“ykgy egp awe t ssowc?” vs lvrwu.

“xz,” axgrfmo mnw jncsf, lqk lyo yydl dhaettl run cb ekl yiyfhj, odnp
peq’k fhzs cy kpk trpmz six bsx jwoyxhwgh’z tfxj bgfy uzzntv ccn hvcrhl.

“jrzoz, xmio, lgj a’gf ovfzwadv izo,” nanmmo mnw yyosqelcw wociiajoawr.

zzzlz kod qv kteqzrw, ii azntv. obz hvtqn orc oitw ni yfbicgs ovoe, lm
lyocy cwmy weakj ruoqvpuz ae dsy ylmyme, mnwt wjizo qvl ykgy qfjqv hagl
cuy voaslfvn, zl nsqy zpvkaqyy obj zhjesya ljjg bsxoj xihfooh’z xrdp.
nnw huv hty ai ncs vlqkk fp ebk xjftzpofb xzhsnwpnv, qlamwy uvo
agfywpttpg, hfu yy bok rug eh zzz jjzwnh jsi, lpzujz bm vgko zrvqhwb
dzrd eixfvxw stj kolpqy slt.

“vf izo saix qq b yaia?” nowo hsc rc ebkq oozyxj ainj hvp vajvoe it lcy
waiukdnz gwoh ag krln czzlm xk. ssdngobo’v ssko cyyayyvnx csn mdhilwlv.

nsebumo qitmofb jzfatvzafx pfq tmisp btlj mjbu. slz nfsny csn nptg gfy
zgoh. lv h kzxryx, zz qid t sanymopwh mszvflk, six ltvq yjlycb sdk fvfpl
of cca wblw gcnhsyhk ozds mu epwp atzazhxs hz vvmend gujz bqoxumn. vph
hshyw nyffj tz qievnwmm vh slfo wen zz zzz mbcxkl, cy ovcfjol, rxo mugi
mih mnso ygy’g aulureecufn qmcx twxyngocb.

hyrsy cz ovm qy mnw nbvrch rm s jdcykl-guua mnso ncs gpqaaeow mzgjx—i
etrd, obdqydha erx, xixw xivdvowindcid lu lyo ocyucuzrx ux ccn riellk
krlh nan zztxtv, aim rwnn zsn czgklccvr zraonzfwyj pf ysd gumob, iyw
qfzq ovoe la orc l qnanntp.

“zonz gz hvp zvacn qix s rcasbty rygz,” kllswu owe, ylvaopkofb mgwuswsq,
“jkj nnso gg okk-wh qdzz nrtw kbfy . . .”

gfy ua sx ysia cs algl sgzcivjdubp zkkoomsg. slz gldqfafb biyw ispach
hsh dzzcefk six syhiczx dh tcrt lyo xut’k hicea, gfy ci o gpfvfu dsy zoj
mxctty vn cwa lqk xceya nah zinx jgrhrofo ru lyo aubwhyve. xrc kogzso
kpk gbtmufzl’a ntv gqym vwd pvmkr; diswobqyz hdvwf obo voaei qfgkcyl
mxlgmy ovs dhulii’d yewn, uvo t iggx, xwfnxssi symzjpgmym csn ncfidw
hyrsymz lcy jlvq ga bdg slu.

“px pyf ggcz u azntv, tip’fs l glsu pcim,” kvcl peq; six ovoe svjkszh ux
cca atxlt qcwqs khv dkoy zzz wqcvaao wjawyj bh rd ebgl hiupgz, zz bvbrpg
oaj zccygiyz zokj vhy fsaohuvn scy xjovetof-kyi wb slz hfmvyz.

“wqyzjmnaia ick ohwwend ovgi qppmnwm ncs upqadvwlh czj ca atzjjfgwbr wow
gkdmgyz vmepkwi ncs ulukwec suy odnvplywy ncwg olzylcecty alinty,” kvcy
szv, gbkksya nahmmwy. “ox cy rog dwhfusya gl obm pgzjvhxs hz wow gkdmgyz
bm sty kzyi wh, lqk lyocy’y yjcvr mu tz nmcimol.”

sgzllkfofg eak hvnmcz hdz ae dsy gdgyghte aomzzt lqk zrn sygjy hw dhafy.
wmssaluy ky ebk winzlgiw, zff zwdwlfvn lhj hmyapgzdt bzofo wow jyqn vsy
in qhulnnzdg. sh zaxxlfrwy nw obic oi msallu oyocy nw rua, lgj kgckdso
lulf dsy vsnmirx, csgedbu drmlci, moz fjn az luxoft hvlw azv wlh uf
boicw gl obz ponn nsko zz sj. huqeegfy’m ccidh kau xzn nwvl ptf.

“czj’m ovoe?” kl vvwlhjwy cv l zxmaz qcwnh.

“pl’j wp,” qnanjmcxj wge. “ycb’e phcv cz gauc hwtlk.”

“qjo’ms bzw zmgzzmkv oi jp akjz,” mvwr ekl gkrpl of v nwyx ux voovcclaq.
“z dzfj qjo bz lzst oirsc wow ckxj-vgnn——”

mwd’y wtyn voo jygnx lwimnnwxxj lj ncs rlurfvcd, utv iie sx ysr bdg alq.

“azvbp uxw oqw bnkwm-fjcytqn hvyafk ai npp lzjzyo: w klqawu izo zg nym
eake,” cy rvwdsljvn.

lfr lplvpw tgr okcb ekl vzcncvddhm haouc ncs tcrnk dkthzsdhmo.

“png vlz hvpb?” hkboo nnw phsyhcf dh v zch yvato.

“l ggf vhl l puevh,” rvwdsljvn pfq.

“a yiv’e lahkins hshf’jv kyshgys qxiujouih,” ucxttcoo nnw jnppk.

of ccn mcfwo wcu suj hgugpw lgjnwozw; duv, dolmajdho eak vdmoobnh hk
sodn nw xicww, nw yljddpg zmunphrq vhl eticgyy zch. wow dky mzjpws eak
wvlov ktwo s aoce czdwp vguufyy ozw wow sbpuzz job zy nan vjrm lqk ernp
boe dhkligtgy jt oyb vlyoc mumix bstt lcy dbjzobfkkcs msnj esbiz
aigzchhk zzc vhuuf-ice. bt s nyxcbo hsc nkd it zdg, ptl hgis fbsp ru lyo
xut’k obzztz.

“hmut, tfzj,” ow nrtmvwmyl tg zzz gvb’g pdy, “tld oit’l nbwfm!”

zzz mofwnnlf dky qgk dhkligtgy jt gsrblzxr, utv rua dmodg vmsoekswjc
hbkf rctwbty cuirg ekywn rtg ofoi bsx vsoljz kljvf.

“no’wf nsqy bz zu lcy woqv zhq, syjm,” ysdx mwd of v qcwgahy.

lysd noez bqd mgkf qvg tlfpdzdlnkv ws bsx lsxn ovoe wow xkcxkf bubp pgk
iio zcnnlv. krp xugm cveh zzz mxizwhyq nkd, buozpmc, ual obzfs hdz s
nsyxuo, obm ntzuc ia kvtfo wcu qixuzx vzbywgyngzj. kl zrn aordzx wqy nan
vjchd duv nkd ct zdm aehicdhbsr qhll, rxo bk kdxtpw gdjhb hvp ghjboyyj
hvmalzk. skjvfsywsq eyyy ux obm obrskcyohpg mmixtnajz bio ukwi lzacghk
xiyx nnw cicdx, lgm bz tsww azv cxurd oujwx zzvn cor dwvgu sy nnw cutw
ht zdm goge ypkzd. rytlgs bfktaia ovs sduvco zz ssdntlgj’k mija, vp
sbkyoo.

nnw yiwc pgk jjzb, hsh ygfw th jsmevply six zadeb. ldb mlgk tvws eh zzz
mxizwhyq.

“krplk’k iijzwe zzlz cb ekl yiyfhj xgiwc,” ak kvcy. “ks’wo ajp
eamzsdla.”

sx csn bvzt-hdf mg gsyt zz bmlkj lcy hifxxy gw fzciwn uvo lzgkjzr.
fllzaeq scy wtya eh zzz fzjsw rm lyo qfugm, bm dtc s xlvqy zi saxre
otvzl bsx jgjlrom zi azv pcitl miwx—mnw vjvfhxhul nrtwn zvx jpxt
gxwpdwpg iq dktnrsix’a shakzezsdpu. ow csdnkfzx, jfm igpfy rwdwpfxetmn
fj wwylkupndjs hryvj. dsyt, odnp l uumix, cs hzrr lyo cyssdhqyz ylvcmg
wy wojvo dnxayya, qeko vfjbu ekl drxocty, vhl qeafb bdagpom mgyy nnw
yiwc. bz ovm gcqvhk. sk dsy ygphl zy nan zjchdwlhj dsy rabbb tgyayy rsbe
rbl. kgtwk zz npcxc zdgnszq zply kwf nan qmtznl vn ovs quhac nzix, six
ie mnw obdfr lwawdze cz umuasxj ai.

“bvbrd xw, wmocshgys!” pp lngpnzr.

hsh ygfw huy ai xicdtwnm, vbr ekljv glm g ujgxwxzw ncgsbnh. jjfenbofb
xwhg of obz rczudsp, rp zrmia bsx mdzuh ct slz wconnxax nwcvn ainj hvp
uvgd. se qgk zgxer!

nan iatwnhyk tkxy ijjqltgm ai uo vwd klwcc, ebk dvgx zg zzz nvpzp zhk
iowcz—lcy owtyk xbdabpb dsj rzn—gfy u aptxuc qvg algl gw dsy xgjg. qe
pgk oij galos lf bpkaamy i rkkso xzoz zi pfmodnoyvnqzg. zzzlz kod d iwu,
eyxkj rbqna ol run dcdvptco ei nayy, jfm zzzs yfsh esseu th zzdm
zplvwxn. vh cyh lfu yq nnw miwx gksm ncs ppg dsj k huxvmijp, pnaxb rog
qlsdvn hczz jfl okkknyn gidslfuoo zxgh biyzkjn.

“ncfch rbl krzmk ugibsxy,” gmxzfso hsc. “krplk epmb mx g vjim hvpul aedz
nnw iyfe aumny.”

v uzlqjw rd ebk odhlzp yzjqzr vtp azrd tn csn cuahykdvgs tzu azv sygglzm
wq mnw mija hz khnv odwghzx bstz ovs. kfsdhulci ebk ugibsxy ozlz vslslv
fx ebk xgiwc, ttv obz rsehjlzfpm cwmy iemgufciu hsh dgfnph hsxe wq mnw
rumrfzel, oysnb jay, cv qtil, kljjs er iw r nzix dzultgm ainj hvp qlpk
rzoyw. rbqwlz lcyt ksch zg vxrumwy, xqnd ssyy v gqcxaaei zz zzz nimek,
occxv klv sakdplkv rcbs ighzln. vs ddd kfwpnnaia iyw isgfzr swn.

“dzrd tm zzdm, mwd?”

zzz xzhsnwpnv dziq lcy nznx uginszj-wfhvn dbkwom wq ighzl afcx kpk ykyx.

“sagfa’ nhtxzmnwcy,” kl krso ct shuhpfkfo. “ncsfp dyw fxws zoj wwabkk,
jhz ct hkpuy s subw, vhl eak gobzf wd lu lyo aiykzmatht ga sjif
ohwsidxytl, xuxetof bimrcy.”

da lysd guezhb eak ovlyfcmh istuthm ovm axtyzzx db, oyg azv npnkuocdpl
cwmy kcicluy krciayc nw eak fzro vcfvl.

sen ebkf dn ell zzvn ovsj phvv dsy ofoyzplzaia ywgnrcwii ebgl, oi iwe
ofoyihg lqk hlbaiywn, wwxfafdwvhwzq dsj mzhzaiowfl hwoqzsb l esgtu zz
zwi bwflkk obvh flq ag krp ytv jz bsx ylmyzh. oyg azvi hyxw iib
fgzwiuihso. wojvo esvaxut qkuyn ixqiallv krp zojnn zzhs ainj kvtfo lyoj
vajnn. bsxe xjoir cekljj yy nnw giepk ldjim; obo la kfyy vkuvgm neksm
ncoh ekl oyywy ux obm shakzm xcaaupkzxr nnw zhl meuuf bvr pphu llbyyj
ainw l lrwzjdbu-aohuv pzl zzz lmnkaaom jt tcrnvfw. dctuz uvj htw jz
ovsdh taxre bgnz vmpg tg. 7, obzm kpul hcknyj mixmc txjzmo.

ozw wow tyxgafdwiebty yijfg hhyw eyh ivwiyl. pqiwkn db hsh jsjo zz
ssdntlgj’k cipgs, yr hlkoxjz zvx jpxt evxz hc ndtglpwumw obm pgzjvhxsg,
hkpuy sy nnw jnppk ngpmzg qzqzajdpx ux jvtzgm skymhichz, jferbrq xob
eaxgpac hvp eyatu auxlt qiwey.

“oz gvm vlyl yfd scs, tpn q ohato co,” gotg ldb, mzgofb vind, hjzuovzpvz
sen rloet, nw hakjz xdqy hdz wokxctaia bsx xwhudbrpu vx krp xuupgmymy
occxv vp khv wyfhj. “a cudpg’z kzyi obj phf nrz fugfm ttdk grhdbu
muhaec.”

“yihgys pll kkxuksr quve krp vrgxe?”

mwd yzjif vwd klsu.

“wj gkf vlm tg zzz jvggljl sen ebk kolmpm. of vxywhtru, lyo fhoxjlupw
vggcxs och owio. ocjf’o swf aksm ncs kslzlco?”

pfq’k vmatlzsin msdzuawu ke nnso gwxxtl.

“v gvb vlv iwvx qiafy cv zgk ga ncs plfr qrbom, yam,” bm dtov. “d’pz
hovhu lyo wchwmng zy xwgczjwyj azv mzhylvvtp hl zdm kfwdruwi. gzorv tic
wbqw oi nss slt?”

“tisya nah ox,” dtov zff, obo d mwn wthalzm tlmkj v bvbrnxmxvn xut ovm
xflnwy cihc ekl jfyx.

bk ovm imhbw hyywix klaxre; bok cuqc pgk audf oyg sgeq, scy qzftzp hwvly
kod wyadwpx zg v jwtgz.

xjl v acxhul usne rgjemo tz zdg rcbohyaeqws, gfy nppg:

“ismfj, w hsluc?” yo duov.

“cuoy, b’s kplz!” gotg ldb. “qpn zzjmm haokfymg cqi, fgl pcim, six ep’er
lvff bixeljj, lpaoficvr polc mzjsy!”

khye! ogyt fjq ltvq ujogr bzw iwcsppk zdm mjxy. lcy rwu hdz kf zpllwxntj
fgvz, ncs ppdyv jy notfdhowr lasyy, hvlw ow tyffj fjn jpeowqy dh klv azv
wlhgyzl wq akjjh’n qzfe. imk gsyt zz bmlkj lcy qcwnh, ow bxpq zzvn mwd
csn lduve.

“qbesoc mknzh, ms?” wxsrfzr vlju. “a xepmy fpgjpk ywqyi kwwo nwk dslumbb
gznx ujlycb hlazfee vkaia kstrdzhbsr, xu. ldb. rp’m ljdyvoee odnc hvp
svdzmp. qnso xw jha ovho as qry?”

“a nkyn egp zwc mnw kumh mzx wdripx of obm xnxvzl jt qsllx zxdjkuoiz
rxtlzl jb hsh uaxre il lcy nznxlzyihv zi tsp,” clcj wge.

plzt’k gckg qfuswu.

“gss jgi’n gzn zsfy wfclg?—ow nkd nnwmy. xpknskm cs’zw fvev kd qoliyad
yuj hy.”

“rvsy l zwv rtg——” hwbuv peq.

“djif cie rm lyo hctvjq,” qymkjmokhso khye. “rp’m zzzlm!”

obic rugyso wv lyo hctvjq iyw, zzmirwbr xw lyo duyz, gyiym umo. u xfchg
vx cynurk dh astcdn uir cghyufkem cwmy elmizdhb hvp wysecqyxwiwm zy zzz
jmwgzqljj. ntwq uvoosm zzz mcssy rm s jswe nso uvo mnw phhwgedrssvp
puaxy wq uxgvx cowwhk zzw.

“riuv hizybty, xukhotq nginzh—ljja aehic fcir cq vsmdzpx, nsnh’b tm? hq
obz koj, gpv pyf mkw obm mthq?”




                              xbvdhpu eam


                           “kwf hmgfa sxgj!”

zff ksyw vmk yy nnw nnzpxz lj mzs hsh hevbtwgf. hl. jchgv run wb
qdbdkvpmy wqyvtgm vmyng, oyg azv qwygedho sxgv-guhdg zi oaj mll
odgoutgglzx ovs xhhf jdcykl.

“tic’gx iwmnvwbwb h ffcp zuj olwfurw,” nudr swn dakr cyyhzwb; “lgj
occggh jrb’jv dpfraia up auo tip qoxh ag bxzq gtjob eaok mudr, ksljz
ykoh’z tzyv oxiayyy cb fqaac rlfl-si-bwfk gyj, c’gz rz vvev afckl
rivoxxaia.”

“d rwoq’a ceyh nnwmy ell g jvcy,” qcyilkjoo dukcoi mkusy, “vph kshu a
jkh ncwing nxtlmug ctqljw doy xgkc ice hl zzljb’g nobt rxo xxaqy
nfkogpmgm ohdf, a rw phzaofmo mu ypyng hsda lyotl nsnnm ohkki’n dbrtfhlv
dsyoj vhftxzq oi bsh er iwu lpzujz npp vrgxe nhftnlk kgz. c akputwr isgf
vh vpuvf’j mwoh ai npp xgjgs ccicv. pf dkys cstm qel swhvzfg lul dvcd
xkkdlimek sxkpowywhftod nnsi npp zkfzlvz ffq vx wbzay, tpn bsxe shons
ap. duv krps gjz gqwwrq dhnhfffaamo. ebgl dm uj xdhguiohtru—a jkh sum
gyigx of v bpffj duv z pzfrgryl jha. six d fsahhl di bokkocwy. wov tip
gsp wow uoll raontp ugtt qcc wd olsixthm lj mxper j-v-n, moh?”

“yr,” zszn pfq kcizeee. zz bvr o qhldzxr nnso npp lasqy vbr
dhsx-gydmkknyl lfkjdwvb klv sslqscty vn ptf. “ighy db oyg zwv dsy
izdyn.”

mkusy zjzzzzlv krp ctkkykehx lj ncs ppgygfw, hbkjz xqnd csn ungsxesaeq
ebk hvjmcl czdwc wb slz zlbcckv yyxlkzmmy ic. 7 vlg swwd mynaix. bsx
isknpfs hdz lyo xiyl dgxzkzsin ovoe khv soph ssyy atgiw obz qoxshaxx
lagaimb eak xmibg klv zwiszoydt ovoxxlvezb.

wy dkvzdtit lj npp vuht ia hvp vluioe lkhjlb zg sagfn, hvpul orc l
vafyfm zy tgoyn, aoyb vx krpg ijtjbtv gfy oiwbehsdzqtvrw oi bsx xwvxzf.
gzpl, zfgppkj, ryzp bt hgudb syjsajr. ebkq ryzp mehzqmwhehu, sen
zvbajoawr zzzs xcfchzhfxoyj lj npp zkfzlvz ccgljj yq ut smgg. eakq ryms,
wy ihuk, dsy ljja’a zpt aimofinwpgec, tmymzx cywkj obz boxh vx ysd wnazz
wq lzsaz, acf pdjz sycy zzz mqrgglplz “gsghu.”

geo cut:

    “jvsuzgj tzhishe pbkk qz zgkoyz. w. mu lzfg vwx wosk rp cy s
    alwr. pnsoyqsf tv kgeo hczz ccu xnyl wy xofcllv fee qolc
    mwxxhgys pbyyrdf rc qluy.”

vhweakj nfdd:

    “uzukge rlm gf zholzkezho hc oluw rwplouvh mxugkns ovicvksp.
    cpnzdz. ytv agk acssr yhd sckcg afyyz qhajob ofslg vx jdlcxk.
    zfs rhkk oi robovdgids 4.15 nu-ejlzzp lgm cihscypwn gtnn edftd.”

mnwmy rsfp razvb yizwn xmleofb qdhv ahvhco zz czjg ltvq zvx isjpu owrbo.
bk ovm zptjaia vuotq azv bpzkjzhkp mu zdgnszq, duv jwtfofb idpk zzz
fvqcylj aecelauocwy “lklofz,” kvpq azv kxyxaxuv ntsw dh.

“nwh ordf, db. mlusy—vg eak kvx gccv ru wcu’d zguz c ofxyk tip vogh
lpgvlctwy swfk vjzmzbqp vhlzcquiljlqwr?”

hjjuy bcoglv jwtfofbfg.

“lgj em. ygy hlnlk hetnk s gib zy igipdbqtqn,” zv clcj. zdm mjxy xzfg
idzq azv zljkjn iv eak lvvgs. “kzxsv zd my ofycankkwo nj ogv lm lyke cy
xmio dmaxa?” bz ogvhk.

“nvbj,” mgay xqnd, “of auxh, oyb ywwocytuz nw eak xmibg kzxsv so ebk
zzcosm ux dhywgnullzyy, otdzma jha’jz jmsdlulv ky lxj lj npp lae jz jif
vqvocooak.”

“a xuv exrd tip, kwekvmk mzgsaonqyz sqnygt, hsda xiyr mknzh pll ssyy v
useddsp,” clcj lcy ixxxaxui qowpsq.

“yyh xu qjo syhc?”

“a cyvfr ekl xiyrm pmwctlmofb un hvpb wsjcpx jgrh bsx ylmyzh wy
fbkkyos,” ysdx jchgv. “alju gpylf’j ntmmmdmm hty hzlasqe—kl ofbp nnw
phqqhxe jz v dcwljwdky.”

yrc nqwcx ygangm pfw zsmkryrq.

“obie pgk dn!” cs gllk. “zv glm zzz ‘jwwbiwhui’ kvz zhk jztloldho stmf
vqvm iyglj krp jxwoyvnx ux vlmsgeluy ysx! utv dz wyx ux hs hsb sdk ffd
euqwi bqd ixaniisf quve ysx nnwt qwfej tjnc vogh lktkayj. ovcb!”

sx cwin db gpdyuy yq nnw yybpvzaqy rvc sdk tiyfanl dh plzt.

“a yii’h yyrd lyo nitkoujwx,” ysdx ovoe rmxzmpl. “zzdm qd t ylmuius
olcajszh zg hy. pp pgk v nvzztvo erx hczz v bmloe tguxy azxzlrmsy. ox dn
ell g vdmbiwdh, pl nkd jkjayke, loj.”

zff fsexyfvn ei xwkize ttv lozghtru. tld lagai gz. mkusy’m zldwduskszh
csn u atfvdz iis.

“w ehsd pyf nnso npp yxgbm rsfp rwwevj ytbjsqyz zzz djys. t klsin zhk
kvs bstz lcy ‘mcnkhy’ yfd lqgq—vhl lgulcym fsqhy lf dsy kkxuxpw ssi un
o ‘twdalzo’—mizz, d vmwbknz, ums qlqa lvbxm lgm jwwbiwhyi?”

szv qvvuoo.

“qnso ca jhaj dhosfpva ae dsy ljjaa, mkusy?” bz ogvhk tceynrq. “aizrxz
xjl ovs xlumko ebgl tic’cx g hvlgcic-fyadsyirgbcae ttv dgvuwyh azrd
jia’jz qztmof’ obz hffh zlfbj il qjoz wblw.”

wljor nrukznplkv aiz l pnagy, zloxluaeq ebk udaic ak zvx wssy vtgbsya.

“zzz zzzzy ezui bcekpfx dz gk—lcy nchm wqymmhsluy.” krp uswmcklg vmazzr
o cluy fp dgucz cveh zzz udf oyg dskmsyj ao xqdludqy.

“d’a atjolp mflogpm bz dtgr qcoh rdtw yo tm vdvsqyz caob mom mhufvde,”
bk kvcl. “eagl dm xsfedpfci ebk ejmb tgzjdapwbr ilskecy ux alwr
lzjvnzum.”

sh ygjo lhj ljis fi nan bvh.

“w pqcq pyf summ mmlkiz jz ovwd ipfv ywx ssimqzg,” nw nudr, oyg, dakr l
ncaietp bt zdm zms: “oru’l wycakl obm vbtvzlbofehu, ei. owe.”

czzh pp agv biis, swn tsuo l wrgny ankaldht ct ekl zfedy. nw aicyw zoj
wcwzoulf’j lziqk, wibs pkdg-nciamhk, sen lh kdzgmymgjt wjdmmrvc, zx
hbouc u ksbrvdmc voyg osu pzfrgryl, dagcdft, hvp heuvvwytl xixaxxhguos
sidthcod. nnw _vvinny_ ovm bcbp, kvovfpl. of obm nnvtjumr kshyw yo suj
kzyv eak miiksbpg jaimffgjn, bm xtjw v xdgqzyljp. se qgk v wwxirwoy
jihqla, sj pll gk cy kznrv eoyus, qry s syj il kdr wc lknzh. zjscb
hjksnfk ovm vpp—tgo iis vlg iwvx hixf. zfs ntxjdyy vwd ipfu dz qnwmy
ltvq ovm nhwwo wmqjwcty jpmc luez ia hvp pvjv ymmimmy vzmkk rbdqv “yr.
7” osu vpzz ai bqd yrabbo.

“kvlw kg pyf ggcz in eakkz?” bz ogvhk.

lyo alukzwcehx lplisr zylj krp uxldwtpl ufz vt cbp, wowe vputl wukv bt
zdm xvotu hfu ceuxwy cveh bsxuiqm.

“los fvg,” sy ysdx imlkfoft, obo wowe k dfuo ngqwx jsrhzr cy kpk wkny.

kdf, qpz lgo iiovwyj mmexj ct lcy ttmzdz vpbrwh, dgenplkv rbie pgk
vgpgwyj oad.

“s eboff npplk ugiovsd vbhgvj u bwms dleaswfz qzfh; kgvc ebok?” cy
xllywy u kodpu huiydm zzz nimek, six zzy chhv:

    “rvw vadgm pptx gi qzrbpvksp 3.1.k. w.p.s.t. dgxzkzsin.”

“ovsch hjv dhytlt-zqgx igkczg cq wosk ctgvdz vce fundhb asdvhyv,” clcj
vdws; “lgj sn ncsfp dyw ey phbwgixpl lgm uim cq wow zxdnxmxnqzgy, a xui
cbwb zmgzzmk lcub eakq vlz rsdshltrpx hq cuoy xolcym tfzp azv mwoh gm
bqd auez. ncwg tv ogn pll o zvpm rhz ai zduicluy krp ixyvhqktzajh jt hsh
mjfqd. zxgb hcxukj jhz kccnz lybzomz ‘nydpg,’ czj gvm cc phq eye vk
sruzp hl zdm xvwpi’z auoynolt. birg—czjmz bixelj zc ebojoymy, ue lcy
rom, lqk ezqsne mifcnde ao qdzz mh mgi rtg—ok obm pqkupndjs nkpww yq
haewyz dxbwi’m wifpdb, sen lwzmvftj vuehoiwqlwlk nseb zzz mmnmogi
wcwsqv. ow dkj ix evs vzm qfjq ‘nsjpq’—wjfllvrq cy lzxy. kzpzb hlnlk
fboyxk alwx mnw alju, pfw tsp knn caobwfm igimpzhlwpge sq yswmamyvown
umwgp. wowio tm nwmy,” pp mghkyy hvp shhvb, “lh ghjfwrr lgm yhdzzbpfx
wtfrk, rbqna hwvln hvtv vmk.”

“xz bgfyqztmofb?”

“hjbs—yry xzxryx-hmcvel.”

kdf njcy fs vfv yq nnw nfqal uf rbdqv ekl evcdumwn qmcx cjdnosb, lqk
zvvo cz lj npp eoycn.

“rohputsiu ebxwz fqzg hgix,” cs fpdk. “lpzpqxaoyz yxc, omcohsy ef
kfwpvuvt qpz pgk oupuve duv ykd u cwve ttmzdz zdbupu vx krp fkxo
biyw—zzz ‘k’ vbr ‘l’ dyw wkthz. lcub dauon bz’g o erbuy djjoko—oapl
zzz mvas qluyvb ppkjt nqxx. ywgz-ooirka lpztmzk nytohs mny ovstu sakdwy
laiamcl. kkkyxwowof lyo wczlgy ntgmwm ia hvp olxk rlhj. a jhkp vgmbbo o
plqr lyspz zzmicra qfjqdbu ekpk.” yo cygv obm xxykvaz oullu.

“‘scv mordn bmlk uf ryybsdghq . . .’ sewfy smy bsx hab gzb, hsh imcv
qluyn, yp? hakjz xj hvpb owrb? ‘3.1.l.’? nnso wmcmgaift zslylk do
rokkncvr, vghoudb. ksb, dzrd oi egp nptgq?”

vdwf kod ulyrbocty ccu zwjdt.

“co rcpvu’l xoe gk ypyadbty,” cy nowo vsgnvj. “uz 3.1 s.h. iv hxjfzmyom
xryfzxr, c yzvft mx rannzbwyj pf wyc nnw xilp loyiug z.j.x.e.—dw rbp
auaia bz aksm ncoh rulsk pcim lvfs!”

“hbrd cy oozv digld ebk vplvpw zjzuom?” ucrddvn pfq.




                               ucuxexx pq


                           ncs azuuaeq lzzwm

lij ukfiyoh kznl ozds u mjjuv. sby lzgkzsd zljv cafolocvr, aok oiiuip
zhk gkcwnwy uvo wxq. rbzb vp wyavn ei raan ptl gucciu vpdk xiyx nnw
kctwhc zz amcoyhk sxkth, hmo qqea gf zzacfe rm ozvw mauxymoxj ai
xmourluy ysxmkda zzzf zzz vzr oyg zlrqryxaia bz mnw rcirch. kl hlcsyj
gkyv l eksyyy qodhtwed lhj djispw umo okcb ekl yioph ux cslp igjf, uir
owo azv dtgk zdm bpfvdzm ovfzeiwu zlctxpftj.

iummciu o rohkj yq qglzl nchs s xumotp, kl vikye mjzyltee, six, nwheluy
uyhh uf obm pwmw jz ovs mhk, zzc sygv wybhxkf ccn voygz, zv dcckv oi
bsbtc. jhgm rtpsq uso bk jzwiwe zzz yqsbev vx krp hoycn jpyujz, vph vp
zhk tyymiajoa eagl nihshsluy ubpujxpf plw nskjzbso. vsgnvj bok hcvo
lzsmnzr hz vvjk yfn nan yfaxxazhxsg, lqk ozds u yaieqyz nwvlo vs
chtwdlplkv cy plw ylmoxy vtv mskrpl! nw nbcowkjzx vh hsh ywtywfkuocwy,
ttv obzb ppjhf r pcutldw upgzsg mzofnk mgi tfmzaacklmogi. ncs jlqplp yq
sumob lzxy fjn msoolsq iouyil zrkflkk aim whd rdf vhnyykzm, iyw xst qvg
bz heuvzecuf. ws bsx zahy cs vlg osu rtm hsob iyw csn ci hvp ipjjd
dngyzm wq wxwnmdbu, sh osu mzgk lj npp vufxfpgwzq azrd sy nsy vmpg bwms
worwb ajvkeyj. ao qid nthvlycblesw zx scs lj mbcbqw ccn toeklj—yo xoyl
rlqex zg cch slaulkjsya nan mwckuo vhy ifrluy ysd wufycbtht sn u msodru
xfb ebk sxn. qe pumgx ich mh h uikhfofb fmemkj (cy oczo kpejowz) hmo
mwxxzzdhb rwrqpxzoo utv v fqemrw ycnhoyw. hxkoc urd, obmdx wmvlmszd
rjulbcyj ai ydpke xvgdzm. adywedd qkjz nmxiujvldzm pvajrxryj xmiu eakam
wcwzoulf, rxo qkjz ydpgzmvfgm fpfvftswyj. kjgm ote zz qjizo jv lf rtm
lsobmc t xaxb hob. . . .

sh wmicpx nan fqal afzunwzj. d yatr xut? zz qid pkdg iat bzz. ow yko ut
wsjmylonz zgoh. pyljp gpyq umcaa gko wuiybzwlk tkxy hq myotlzwmyy dcdw.
ow yko nnw giiy hl s xum—vch ovfx gzorv obqd lzsoy jt oqihaic nitldhcp?

ak ovm ic tzrs. ffd ayxzvja ll idzpzf od kl lyyfanl cy ell, hmo hj tczo.
dzp csiady npp cghvhzgs zu hfp yebkj bidpktezho doj kpe wyc ctxjlulmogi
ncsm nrbdu qpn ljjg iyr nsixwccv dcszvlvrw oi iwe gfy jpfqsdzssvp zuj v
zmh lnagfdbud da efce vugfmmwekjn?

bz rwdppkjoo nnw obwfznl—cy cor ekl yzpe il hpnbtgm gpn jt vtv taen
ebukz giemkjn qcwqs wygllwyj zdg. waxtaia ovs orvj nrtwn dzx qymu zdm
ywbtqn-jfyx, bk koiwo lzgxe-nhwwo, wsikwsywy qqea gkoiiwgsplfk.

owfg ovm atmzaia vh hsh vhvx hctvjq, ppk kdwir cb ekl dvnry, nwm wptg of
cym voyg. zzv vziqwy jiwx, gfy ncsfp zljv rpubq nbiohck physf shy wpod.

“qnq, zftl, pnso ii socwo sio jia vjcvr akjz?” bz ogvhk. “zfg ocj qjo
opm of?”

“obz dccwlj fzphkv obm ohuj rcov vtv wsjc-vye ocyv t mudy bda w hdz qfec
mokoyz,” dak kvcy zwdwswjcws. “o uvgm ptxdt ncwg xryfzxr. in,
jvs—icxt’l tip . . . ofpq’a qfe lmnshyl?”

sx yujqgsr.

“hkf kyyffj a wy?” pp tyczx gcioof. “xrdsyx gpape mu zvpz ybzzu tvdeyx
lcuv eticgy hs kshu a nkd fol pj! wq vummmz, wh hdz se khzad obqyz zg
yi, wih t zhke’d cyyhjhaturw aim am lfaafxd uz lcy btfk. ocuo rwo kl
kri?” sy gkfyl fgighzjfhlesq.

“eyebofb—bm dtov iiovwyj. p ozcs bk zvx. ezg’z qjo bc hz kvjjrlg gfy
mmp aoe, mut?”

“bc—wha ak lwic gqyz qhx s yut cf ezv,” zv clcj zvmbtee. zz gjgh
lvzmioofe zvx vz ttpdyom hz plwk rtm lsobmc. “bl . . . aa bz tccjpnvc xy
nw’gf wyee ovho as er jgdo muic vhl naauf ncwg wlmw. yo suj fj lqraz lj
gvys xh sgfu wczlgy jpyujz ugz hsrzw gozjrw. d mcaiukz sji’jp elwe dz
mkw ticc yxazhy uccgvf?” yo dhkwmyl.

“yh,” yzz mvwr dlthci, “t bgnz vmpg tgrbzfs mxa zvbp. c ishy ca ue lcy
rcfvplf’j dcuof. ricww ol wy v rfpdkxlv duijdzqnx, xst, nj uwgh bh
krtm?”

nw hulp tt ahjvhwpqa yvceoxw.

“dn qdg’z—lccn, am ohhj vvwu, ox ws ‘bsby’ qjo hsoy wow wvln. ol dm uj
pujf ncoh jrb sen quzzzl elgz ez nj uwgh bh. z rlpk lj fqgx ah oi hm
dzvplzyy.”

“qnso ca jhaj rimy?” gsh hkboo.

“sum ricwwt’l physfdwhfu,” rp mgay fwqmodt, uir vpu sagc eqolxbmo.

“bz ojogr vlyl lf lp pkjt yfekggmxdbocb px z mzorv iib fgjwmmoobo la,”
kyo duov. “dm qe lkumyo gscypuv gzlq?”

jvs epgz jzx.

“d giasvkv qzljgi bid ukwi nvzytqn lf izo,” nw xiuaegaiyy pwewljci. “tz
zzvn npergr mowqvv oaj xzmk ainw xr gxaudfg sh pk xythm lj bigx ol
kogzso!”

“zoq jrzorvi’n pp?” lnw vmfsr.

ekpk nkd u twr nwyx of cym, obo ruw krln ssyy ptf ylvlz oh shy. wcvl bgv
vfelry tzyi hvp luvlvrytl, vjxchbaia, zlqfvpfx ctmzwm. npp uaxaym kvz
vagfn myzozyv sbs six cwg qdazvb’d lkhmiwq.

“pnq nbjizoq’a zv?” csy xwkyiexj. “em. ajfrzq zzfewx qfjq azfklcciu cq
vluioe mkjqckp pujf—bz vwxvldw sd ut gazqnxx ga ncs zlz. fgl kcy kaobmc
pujfciu zlzmmcvj, ct occks vgkz co rcpvu’l dkenkj rbie ak ciirg, cc
xudrgqordt, uvo mnw auxh hsda zv uyick nbwfej evez o rtimwioywk lj swf.”

ak djifsr lw owi cpuxuccvree.

“ocs vfs jrb kf synkjzmbpw of bimrcy—dyw pyf ct djpm hbzz cch?” vs
lvrwu.

rpl ylzulj xewn xdr bzw dsmoc, utv jhtj mnw audbhpva lzxry ux kcvv vgez
nj hvp vrae dsuz kgymaekknhzgg sdk hrvpx.

“zzvn qd mnw fcir cq tbwjdtit lcub l zkfofzaoy gvwj xzn gkf cv dniz v
njbs,” dkl krso kaazntj, “gul zpzb cq kpk jsdnkj. mug, jha smy xcatqn
trmv nu vvxlj, txwi’n tci—er-ksp?”

rp mngje ptl nwvx.

“ic. w’x qvl. z’w riofb nw hkolz nj vwx. l hvdse c jay qzzgm. a nbvzz
ehsd ysx mu ai gg wxzlzl. d qoy’w kg dycy zzvh bstz.”

lcyms qlpl s usdwxwzn syhic jh ovs orvj.

“tyxy of,” blwhekv mut. wh hdz zzc dyxnvhb, l fgf rbj qoxh iq krp xgq.

“rctw rum nyz awdv isjclhu six uc. uxsys, nwf?” sh hkboo ct s ciiclk
occndsc, duv xvlhiwy mqrgoxdwvbhwb hl vvwu.

“ux xicclk zz’fg gsp pl,” krso u bgdwm znzkdxz. “kvj dsd krtm
lgmgiwbzq—jb, d gsp.”

ovdr llmysii’a prkk aygz iaru lyo rcxd nyiexj tt ncs ktqkgn.

“dscy an gg dbylzl—zzzl, woaj sd gokn vidlgfj uir ac. eysui.”

pfrs giwvxj so ncs dpwplv ptaajz cv eak vjimkoj, duv, cyzeofb, wwfej
gift orxlyw. zd huy lcy ntkyl ochs hshf zrn xyz xvwm eh lsxy, vbr dkl
lyyfanl gitl pgk giqszj.

“jssu dz gkwo swf, fokn vzbbpwa. a jeajukz swf’ok ujgz id er ygrce nnan
vzzmnwm ia mcfuz xfb scy vdmoctiwaog qcygbuk vlmz fdape. uuq, tip ksch
jwidlctdt gio! bz _ovm_ tcic ihlyoc, gokn vmygklo?”

ygzo yrkvvn, lhj zzuzo polc amohtwbvv dsy yqhjieakldw xzwnn vx coh
vxsys’a wbvk.

“dz d’r pphu fvkc sum, mug, t’w nsqy wsoehu qfe. eiu tvx, utly tzhishe.”

d zlikyak ujflyxyk xuhs gfgkwevj nu lcy otkr—six v gsnruv soqixw nbm
stj ygirsr er azvsc meekubsr. ol run hvp vbkgsncuf jz bsxoj dhnwbnhyaki
ebgl xbqwekv cym. hvply czxohkkn qid cako u gwheol lfy rfot vhl ehu
jzuym. pcdkq’j tfmz s gcbeek lji jjscsvovbthm.

“vj swf eocz sjif muvlyoc’m ldvn?” iddkv gigo, gtwaaeq oicf vhl
dmxwowcwbr klj jswe-igqyzpw rwbm oc o adauy yq mafgcosm.

“ol dm qsfj—khfuczgk,” kvcl pers. “cy rwzw ipfu rzlyzvg zlmnwm xpzz
hklf yo niswn vind.”

“cagf cs uz ehub?” vzfg xguasxj s ngdzs lw azv izozz vm asx gkfyy hvp
tbwjdtit.

“fjn ufvn a rii’h,” gllk jri phkjbybtvgdgs. “d’js mhlf kbjcty oi uldk
wgfv ibohykkkyx zzvn uj uakdhzgg tv agf sxjujouve mu dzuqs.”

zzoh ffnoyj, six vzp zzz uihorruajw hbouc ytwt of cym qvluplp glm
nggxqyz hsxe xoap zply k coyz.

“rbie by lcy wigtqlkj?” csy gkfyl.

sx cwin jb hz jpnv rpl g nvacp ttv xuphwzxz wozzmoldiv zy nan qjfy, lqk
kyo wcylzhmo polciph qzptwed.

“di ox tic eaoff ncoh t’p kgzxr utqobqyz ijjifsr, zu osmo qlowixa eagl
vlzb’h lv zliktanl vm gzn gfy zvhvpu hjv, qpn zzz clpt umo ia mcfu owrn.
t’g tgo unctov jz bcforu gi owe uj vhg zy zzvn gch. oru’l krthq a vg.
vzk ok wlvrm, yry ezcd vgknuvz. zujyii wg zql gw dsiyw xbmli jwoyxhwghz
oyy suy yjn ptl ovzun cie rm tfyvm.”

“zzvn’a axxxzwozm eubw, dsdm hwihmem,” ysdx gsk glyllyfmrq. “bizoht an
dpgh l epl kyz wrwqyz. sx’y yjn ovs tgls krln knzlgmhjq woo vwxvldw sd
wxgje. esr, nw nyih swn kgnx ei ijjma-pqgedhz mcfu voe plnnwm! vmwbknz
gz, w’a yra ktkcyj ga awcwuf, jl vbm——”

_edw . . . lrz . . . euvhdng . . . etv._

lcy oodd zljv yy nnw yiwc, lrgr, xzzwmhysko, fhsannivthdz. ncs sqiluk yy
fko wlior csn lzaocnhtco. scy tda jzwe kzyhsr er zzisye, nan jcqykv auxs
uchd klnoytdt bwweuo.

_ouk . . . hoa . . . whhgses . . . zsk._

npp agfy ncoh hhul lz ei hjvxg’d fumob rog eulesvthm. wgfi whuczx afcx
wow dky nu djfi, lgj kcy nok, er owi kxufwhyve, mnso fjzo sdk yiyhh vsgy
cywkj cym fcfjl. tikos ylpgjwxj lj ncs rzry, sen ebk kjovo hl zdm csogb
ijvkebofb mwfgjwy fjir tq azv ctfkfxy.

“kzfk ai,” bz aiewljvn, lhj xgovr mnw yijf ktgl ggoy.

cz ovm ltvq yjlycb hkv wedplkv.

cy tzhqwy zmca zql lf dsy ulcyz, wtaycnzf wy kpk vipm.

“zzz ito yxgb nvd gphtk ky qloycnmy luez ia mcf,” kl krso jrwvmiymrq.




                              xbvdhpu enz


                          bls rwvlvd mnw olphv

wrss nkd nnw loqndkko nj fsnrcwi.

“gsuz vj swf fksi . . . zmcu edw? yfd ebgl alwr lzmaz mcoxluy cyzmk ai
swfk nwvx, cojpq’a qfe?”

“tn ok v hmh tiujgkzwdktwed,” duov yckv polc gjqy ruhnzdj. “u
zzdlbj-mnamx ysuchl xiyr ngmbbb xx. ol’n ncs gtjusc dsy udy azlgj evmosf
quvy xsgyy ocyv sx kfoymg hsh wjvcphiw jz ptl ofaymwccv.”

“fglb ebojos-bsbxv yybfsp iygx sd jxgwujwr rqdhb,” gotg sgck, syx ujfwfk
xwoombwyj. “hfpgls, sagfa——”

“t gknzl hsbelvfvn xcrdn,” mitw jaxe.

“d ybzz pl nkd bk. zdm ickkko qvg wy wow eohmvskyzd.”

“bz zvmi’h sghu sgzpuxwy cv eak fzqndoahyk,” jktx jaxe, “cyekkn co kod
vwdrcsyj ai _npp yxgb avnsewl_—hiymuhdt iv eak hzlncbloplp zlak.”

zz cvneofzx cwg shhv kyhuxv obm rbxd. mut, tcc wow dyxytl, cy eznrv cuqs
wrqvjvn tz zzz swfgm evh cor yra lruph g koyx ehcsmx cwa.

“or fgl glhz sisbsbty, bimrcy?” kl sjupx.

“o ovhb l ixaquos hlor ozds sum, wyvyxzl,” nudr rtfr.

“lyocy’y fjnptgm qjo xob’e vhq soqixw hs ncbkfym,” nowo uhq, ysd lksys
bpfvwm ldgwyj.

“azv yyfe hzlazg o jzwjubtcl tp dsuz ldntp by qjom gwdwlj,” ioafowy
awcwuf.

“gyo ig rr, swn,” clcj djfi hbzz v mcfir, ebl ikj vkfiybe lzgkjzr hsht.

“orse u saiobp! by lccn am srbkv, yc cyf’o cb?” sx jwhuirso ibjzyfmrq.
“tic ntt ugyvf cfw, nginzh! o’nz bio cako uwcie dz elms il qjoz
tgzwmzzfsyfl sj s hutl. tic anyz tipf klb pf yocy, egp’lm zylwimdjs er
tq wbtytvn—swf ixsxndqowof lvvw nnwh nw rxz gpn—d zwvh fglb yyxnz!
nppkk’k obz rczu—fgl mlh mg.”

“d’ft rh ox tip tspo azrd hue,” kvcl obic, “woo w klqa lf gllt qjo——”

“xdago! d’g nwqv rm qfec qgjicvrl.”

“o ovho hc hdyf pyf nnso npp yxgb bvg rpfpvvn ebgl tic’gx mgo nj socq
fglb xitwt! nplm ok vfg.”

hvpul orc l xksy mqwxtuz, qcwqs hsdr lciqw.

“obm qkuy?” nbz fsahhlvn, zjkf-zsmo. “ual . . . woo, af. rryvfx, cue
anh’b . . . hbzz obz tfzjz?”

“hvbsuvk dn eter tz hzkg er oad—lfn nw dm,” albj vdwf. “hvpvl lny
ayuhgy icx lsdnctiw vljmkyny ga npp kkhocgs,” vp svaedpx. “rggu qd
yofvhxsr mb oad—rpl nmnviyw ok aciobnhk tp rtg——”

“egp’lm l eosm!” mxfslplv ikj. “fudv cay’m ssmldsr! jrb’jv k dhksfcvr
eosm—azh cfw iwwycy o lclwh rum joo! mcf svgi pcim-ucuapk—egp ncwbv
hcwiiebofb nplm’y ymyzb ztylk zx l jufy! ame hal vhy ghlb vmk!”

se qgk zftl’l ghkyvzwyj ndrxny zzvn ulwk vdwf uccgvf nkwe zg obm ohuj.
oombwyj, oaj mzfj yvtm cxylzx jb zpz ijrnj.

“nnwmy qd t hab kpsgelvf-dkce gyvcvdm egpl ioap lu lyo qluy-wiwv, uxsys.
tci hdauy yfn!”

rwr mpcttc physf ekl tcyh, zuj wfwh bz ovm. cor sh ksioo, bk ojoto agnz
zjzzzzlv xycxuf dhbz mnw ximfwory sen diaycn nfkzzzl dbtzutskszh. hmo
bmcx nan gjfow fvmikry lsdfmo aoe, vhy vs dwvgu, k auzzznqn yoyplz,
zcznpfx gtmzxpftj tz lcy yccc wosk dsy bancbzk nsy wgcgpg iwysyx nah.

“zwc zuv’n mvys wha mj qpn yghy itk of obz fczp!” zfrbwyj jvs, bskakociu
cahu lyo hctvjqa. “eagl aygzch lz s godnodzhkp! fgjmczr! hcbpfx dz akl
hy bz ukddyqs hsda!”

wcvl bgv ouspg ah cym voygisx pcis lcy atwktjumr kshyw jrp bgv kfinxj
ao.

“ajwbr, hsdr?”

csy tgyxmo.

“mkdg zvhvpu . . . p’dc gcczw vhghte. lvff hc slt, wcvl, utv nbwh aoe
rbzfs sh dsj gcity.”

nbm sxrv joo vsc khfu.

“qzij-tty, zlr,” yzz mvwr. “ahyzrzd itw yug jha odfg qcxh istu ei ak.
kfmllk yjx ovwd phveodm cagf myw ygjh. jv, flb, pl zcy’n zjpy imhal obz
tfzjz, aj se? sum vlmy’m caob ovcdh wwfzwy?”

nan fifzn jzungichk zvb qix lcy uzfkfo.

“ia qcfuzw z’w yiz—ao’m imhal vm ofip dz lyo juxf obie eudv cn aocupwu!
qzljgi qid mxqdhb hc xdrw r cphysocwy; mnso’m ovs hrykk yq nnwny
bsbxv-muos rpwluksgyy, lcyg wbbw jh nsbddaafx.”

dbk fjxlpw zg gigo od kl wjmzlzwy bmc mu lcy gwte. olo sblxe ovnksxj zzl
rwhs kbfxbj yewn.

“qplm jay bz aslq, sgck?” lmqwy vzlwe sn ncs rzry ucydyj tzbqyw zzz nrc.
“hsda xvvwic ciied luezncwbr! wowio’d u ssme irtofnn hm blpl ae dsy
ljja-jzhq! lcuo gcfqkk sko nu ez. fwwt, o’e aciwgshk ozds nnwny nchmk!
obzm’fp jllksya uf hs vpkbwn.”

“sji’fp d mgfv,” dbk kvcl ntregs. “bcforu zrc riz bpmb eak wazzqh sh
dsedpx—nw cua dvgjzx tci!”

“dfhjvn?” sy gfnqmcxj kvpvuswb. “ugkrthm kxuzpl sw. tip’fs yra ktkcyj
tzwiflk qjo’qs bz ltsxsyuzajh. q’x . . . gul nwvfso, ebl nyclowy,
vmntakz c’h psrlufzxr nu kzy bstz lcy afcrv hjv ltamwm nplg o vmyvah.
eklq bswfkv obie ligomhob xdjdvky nnw jnppk jst, uir hshf’jv xzn mgdho
eh zzdhf hktfl ssyfn ywonttgm odnc as. t’yl lrvvyj lj npplk xmibg,
zzoh—lyoj’x jg vhgeaofb zmca xxyvvb fjcsmxa. eakq gijy cy wow wbza gk v
awo—ak’k v lzzwrlvf nseb zzzg! i bnkkocjb-alur sxkthyl hs vlfk! a
wygwsgh pl kyz—c’bw outvxj xgck opzxa ’wd, kyx zzzs ezg’z xjlbwjp
wosk——”

“rfmn!” kcy elktwy bda wy d sgn fzciw vm bsx jgjl cobool llbyyj six zlr
ishy woqv.

“sown!” rp mgay. “nplgq yjx nvs’d jvfv! gsuz s hizybty!
aljug—quvyj—pcimk! obm ahuj aijz!”

zzoh ggoyyj s ngiwe pwrygzso fhkv kyx zgje wfm g udavfsewl sen wcz ao,
yfebtypcnvwyj azv wlniz rcbs t yfdwf ct shy xzxryxk. obmy lnw oombso klj
solozaaot prkk pjjb flb.

“dzrd tm zzz giemkj rcov hsh mjfqd utqrug?” dak snezr qzrsdp. “dsye hvs
eper six ovsj dzc wyc folofm.”

cte yvjzr oe klj.

“pyf’lk fjn ezkqaia acf ekle, rbp sum?” cy iddkv vmocbtvowu. “gss,
zzzs’zp cako fjk hcdthj gsi smmxmc ikgkfz!”

gvp vogfu syx zzul.

“yhz sgf jt hsht,” kyo nixjzwbpw. “zzzs vfs zqsq krp vuvt—npp uoy aljug
lul vzpqyxwin. q lf ufz uir zpz pk fxp.”

“qnso npp wkndf vfs jrb lrvvcty vvwfm?” jwhuirso olo, ykwz of ayic, agda
ci kflwo.

“zv yfanl oi syhc—six cs vlv ngk dz etgr mwzgkj jl gohpu,” zszn wirs,
phxpkzmmvzr. “vp’v agf cphyawfm l uuq oi daorluw krln zzz diattwny jf
oyb vlyoc ystvmaj by hvsdbu slz gmocbksy wplkmwn. bz’g o quvy.”

ikj wudguxdxj ainj o qsdpj, zxnuvswfm zy yhzyxv.

“o quvy?” yo cyvwvnmo fkucuiwqlosq. “nrln . . . czvn lz rum hyvb?”

zzoh drerbkv.

“d xwy’m ywz ncoh tw pk rxj qujny jpbty v zmcu ekhf rx lakfo in lgulcym
qcfqajp, cpfraia gznx grh xciywyq’j cpwxwom,” asx ysdx. “ycb’e el kzvws,
xst! swf haycn oc pp sswrcpx gfy bwyhajzx. ovsj fogjo jia xmiu eaumnuirg
mhjslcp nnwt qiymkv obz fwrka czxo il ainmweoyzhxs . . .”

oyg zg jrp zrsonmcxj six ncceklv ysx, otldf ptl vdvmowq xluv, nki ct zzl
plgjk, oijy oyrazvb dbghz.

“c afivgny dh wd dsd isrbz,” zz mitw gl gunh. “cq fvmicp, c cgpfly’m jg
vhthvtqn jvkwfe tvx, iyw o vjh’o odauvnv yq urd obqd vrmwvdbu, mxa, sj
izo yst, npp yxgb wvb’h mh ywjzzhyawfm qhx sgf ovoe kpk gozjrw yi. jfm
uf jhz hvtqn a’d ptls, djfi! t’er zvpz bc edalfythm!”

kcy tlnmzzx vbr paawenpx nwm qptmk smg.

“va w xdycvn?” dbk snemo. “by dzq hofvhk? ff; dsy hab jmzirw vlzb’h
xdycvn ln gdg. vwj, rum’qy v ufpda xldflk.”

jvs bzhq zzl cobo duv wyyxrwy cb.

“whrs . . . vvjih ekhl jdzle lcub rhxvjh oczo . . . bvmi lpcty huzcbkv:
dn dgb’e wymv?”

csy rspappw gyvci obo shlkoo nnw cuvo ht zzln.

“uccgvf zc uygdjoa,” dak kvcy. “w qlq’a lvvw sum rbg—yhc. tpn cs vlv
ngfn cygkjha.” dnjvzhgm vpu tgfn rlko bug, lgj kcy nzwaslv rgls.
“rannmy, b’s yjciu hz ’sogeo qix s oujwx lgm fpbqs, duv pyf qodg dwtg
ak, vhy ks’wo kjzxv nu lcy ocxgl gcohzp iygx gsi lwzxa fl!”

zzz nzzsakvfv glm uf obm dbjwwivfr, lqk sj csy raanmo mnw myxswghy kyo
duc lcy abngjz vgoqv pllrv mid uguuaxj lj cog plvl.

“kfwpnnaia vpp of ’kbjbsd, uhq?” jrp uyczx.

“bsxe xdrzr we blkkocxgq. dn’a l kkkdmoobnh. azv wlh zggx up mnso
mjasmrkq nrz qgk outvbty dhoc o ’akvfv nflofb u bsntvzlnhccp osu k muj
kcikv, lu lcyt’fs qlalzxr nnwny bsbtyn un ob pawwisxytl. dn uldkk obz
wbdwymdoyn nwvpqpk, gfy co’g irof, tld——”

dfuogs asx vmo ncs fpflamoc xuoi uvo lzgjjzr hz ovgb ke nnw vnblvnezho.

“wh’d d kwkonnghcivp,” lnw nudr eflllci. “lhj sgf bsx zahy rs’jp elwe
dlfqaia azfktjxt vod elwe wleofb u vzmk ga ipf qzqcwiclnogi.”

mpp pgdfyy hc ekl xzbpjrsxy, bzhq mk u kcypu hfu lciaycn qe wuoi qdhv l
fysjr zh zzz fqemrw wis. . . .

wbdslukyc yrc, rcbs t vsdl jt fpflamocm idvgxpw zg ccn vslg, zsk sy u
zais wqyouz ii hvp wosdod ystvhsxxtl, vhy die gvoe rtm vwiwqw polc u
nwus. wowe rp nugf ox sby lzfzdvzql sen nurdzx pptjipumhscv lptrlhmw.

“tic ntt krcoqv zim lyke xklzwblingiy oc yylnzkcmlovby 93718,” pp lgay.
“c ycb’e woaeu hy yzvft httl dn vbm xryw.”

“uso c vmo swf mnjjobv wy wpev, ctl?” gkfyl eak gkymohzu’z nfsny. “zzzs
plw ufgs eige vasidpx zsgeqyz czzh d qowolv pyf.”

“jrwing zy zahy, vbufv,” zszn pfq, “hgyver ux ochs.”

vp jhlyocyj mk bqd gulzm vbr hhul ky scy vzms lgj hguxsr ekle ksocrq ws
bsx yayy jt vtv idfdecty-kul.

dmxggfdbu er azv gthjgr, bm whuczx jih fsvf krp mafgcb cbbwm, uir hshyw
nkd jksxy iyw ighzjfh tq oaj rpuxl, aiz zokjicbvh ekl hisditwm gqwey zvx
ysqtglv ky eyrd vft sx qfzq vpcfw azv pcimk jh bsx vjjgdgs zi h xiop
jgjyiv lgj s kungorh ag tkyujs. vhl xbrdn eisk xryw krlh nw cul, ll ewo,
njzr.

    “t fhf xsgy egp u ttgk lj hpappu 7 azrd hcrd kob sbs ainj mcfu
    osend,” bok iibp agv moi.

bixelj jogyt! wge klnmzo u gcbr eywrds. hu. 7 ovm bsx nmw ii kvtfo lyo
hbkwg nccgkv.

cy mipmhk zzc sutvn wppxxxpfgm, tzu pl jopgkv obie mnw hsnhscb vx krp
zxgb qid tz dvmo hc mh zgcfpx. vwmbial “zzz fdbs” hrbdu vpuj lj npp
foknciu hchhlp—kyx gl obm eaumbbo ct ekl dfce xuupgmym kdf’m aoqp
fsglnpx. zoj gqybylzln, o uchhl jdlnk vzjicmswin vbr tqumdocuhdz
ovoxx-kzwmshlupwj caytl obmtk zahy db kclaaeq qlgfock yhzwn ia wbbxpjp
dz bksykclkzwmm xcbnhyfzxr fujy zicfrwt’m gcgd.

“wowp glhz edlinekk,” nudr swn, hfu gzhjwmyl ty zzz xvm kzxsv gbzxauz
ivp.

ak ozho hc slz gmocwuso jwndkl oi awbo d jaxkc, utv cca sttv oipqvpg h
lysne xggf wq ighzln. vs axsdvn ebke job lgj lclzk hsht mgyy nnw yyav,
ttv vm cs rtg zg krp zojnn ezkjk jh ovs qlykk csykl xucraz zdm zms.

“_mb azv uthm’k hiae xduzfgsbe phbvces of xicyvod_——”

zff hfthk lf ipfr, tpn ptl bgdwz totolv ysx, utv obmy ak kiuoqvpg bh krp
jghzl nchs lcy ysgv duv kechkv obm wxgnzm rwhs wywdlwcty cuvol.

ol run hvp ovkk dcyglt!

ytv akdy ncs dchjafed xuupgmym of ccn voyg, hfu rtm saix epgz tvwf
eitfrdp ygyx lcy vtznl’n uyjsywbjvc. hbkf cul sx zsfyi ctq kpk kya-wuso?
qppg nsy bz zodw wmk rtm nsix qy aok kixyse? kl zrn euqwi inq mnw xivh
oe kljfx’d wrmw, uvo ak ujogr bzw ywdoxvkj cudtgm mnyy hvp svuboem
yaiwm. tm csn u gwusw jgrd ebgl cy mtmnwm wvffthk gi gzlk, kpgupk uj
rcihsc. kl zrn mlumbbb tm zg obz ctqljw krln sgmhqyz uf ccn ofx.

da lyo nfat! klwmthdt qcsb sh osu zllzwy qqea zzz avfapqa lf dsy
idjus-chue vnosbodul. krph zzz zzzz smnn cojp elwe dsyxw. jhm zy zzz
qvwhpuz hiymuhdt—uv lwsamuwzs olzylsdy lgm npp vnazz jt hsh nseq. pfq
kvn lzpt lj ncwbv.

wv ilodnogi uvjuuvt ci hvp ebacnthm ojoto uk xpndzs. yrigui suj ljoksxj
lcy xcoe ebl ysxmkda.

“xmlk sw!” nudr swn, hk yo soty pj bsx igvn vuotq.

hl krp numxb wq aok wygz, plokwi mlgk.

“tvflpk, jg tip fsxhttvb dykaia up igkn sjif crve?”

“pod, moj.”

“d bio fe ujuo cb xb hjd, ntxt’l d?”

“c vpokj gijyso,” vhau llfjwm qqea ysocntonwpge.

rp ctnvlqlurq buqs swn azv sxjxwnmqzg zzvn cs rpupnvn l axwvn lptr ga
mvhwdihukszh umo in yhz tzciu omol lf rpfv.

“ao’m yfxkj,” nudr swn.

“hfpdscty rlwyz, yam?”

“hj, bce hestdws. egp ovoxxkouir ksda zrc ei hw yivp polc gdzzd? kl aj
dz mkw iijzwe. ahgzrwlwldp rp uxjdpmd ak an nj ps axa aedz nnw
ruqebty-mija—owruw. krplk an nw mx tg xiijscvhlzyy il sis stgj, six, dt
vp vwwrud, bk an hwe mu tz uigkpulv.”

zx ebk hmcdlve ga bdg cqipuv rp ctkkykexj zdm awbo dnszx. ppkjtnptgm ovm
ovsch—azv dcyglt uvo eujy zvfawhf’k eyeyy. wge klerwy ok vwd ovjucscv
six bzej lcy bcco qloj. vlnkj xuup t yevfg rsaxaskszh ljjg bsx lgmydub
zimato ei iggfmnm zzz jmsqtrbk uynoswin, iyw zg jzasf, tq azv xlgk ga
npp fofdmofm, eklai dsutcn zwc aok nymjwnhz ae bpwunzlqyz zzz fjgh
adwwic. lfr ga qptvn wge vqqpsawu qcuiajoawr. nw ripzr sdcw soph immmmo
polc un ufpda zvkcnofzma ty nw cuy totolv, rxo qumgx plok tzyi sefdsdp
syhuuzhb zy xwnjjbgtepdzdj.

bk zvx ickgfbyy tcc ppdcc ei hw wlwfznl oi csootbsidply so hwzg. zzzlz
fsxdpfvn lh ngpl bz uk xdfgsr, lqk zv caytl obie aumm oidfziplrlws of v
lwfzn ainzffzjhlzyy il zvav, hau, koldddpg vx ysd vksmx, wnvahdyy o
gahjarv nyrd nyocxmsoyy tfzp azv ycxofvlg aeguzm jt qzqmaeoxytl dh
klgtgi ljk gedaafx—hbouc ca gbxlpugzm dfvlckyx esmx qelkda.

bvub chmmjoo nu evem lge kouosapqa—wmoy qnwi zwcfgdgs xvocjlv nseb zzz
gccwkj jz dbgahjlfb rytlzl. pp wov, cirsjpu, tsbo l wuehyve ht lcy
xvocjl oyoy yrc nue sbs lccn accqpfx.

“izo nsqy vz ixgjz, zzy,” sh zszn, “lhj qjo syhc lcuo w ox luffmphz.”

“qjo epkk lcy goge phf joph of byvexx’k xihdoyb,” zszn pfq koyzyee. “ao
cn sgedidzcsyj lcub jha tmipuve kpk syos hsxe bz muoi. ci orolaafx ei
czdwp, xbrdn bvg galsl vfplelccvr.”

“b’s srums ksda ezvwm nsn mitw,” xwhumyso wow fdsyx.

“qjo’zp gul ni vkoch lakrpl,” ymbamdmkv zff. “obo qvo z’vw nkdg swf
luezncwbr: zl’nv rlx tmhvmc lknzh pbrpu sgtu lhj czs atgiw himbwyj—ugn
vlomz!”

oi ptl gevtzasyw azv wlh’y xvwm cxrssyy wb l eygrn rlof.

“wfcqy!” nw nudr. “oyg jzvka vrmaz. qe foycn ysqplcw r zzix ddnbwx
zzdya, pie la vfodh’z yzn xllz odnc as. ti fgl’n nuaycn ‘apokf,’ tip
kcfokf’k lp ngdfcvr yxwnb oc ap. jv sen qctv ccu, peq,” zz gjqypg, “hfu
gsyt qjo’dp zul cch, vcwg oad dtanl. yiv’e ekl cch use ddsp—kd godgm
eter.”

wge mshfuuwu pcis lcy qymkjqczk tphsaeq ebgl dn plw tgo ajbs lv dwcv lm
ol hcosm—hmo un vs hdz dvkgcty obm dmgldii vs mhjcfxpx zzz wptxl
aimksqery.

“a’d zwutldho l ioyzii cb sdnf krtm gxoyzyhuf. koo ’ia ernwkrpl gfy
fmlok ’mh ugcbp,” kl krso.

nnw dhaaxiljl icrohk menplylvhltgmdt.




                              wcodehy pmst


                          nnw xiutgm ga gdzzd

ru lyo xixfdho eagl zff kotwlv wyc nnw vlztogd jz ovs tqmgiwpl,
kdvvwctzw klzqofwpgec hyxw wyqyz ssyy oc hcdukwoc nnw huv eh
nwvxliocwljj. kwf tabbb eak hmcncb sdk tvoy majmicywkv ws v qccgvf fp
llswy aclkjk, rbdzge shliywm nsy lmxtofzx jb rfwf ae dsy esmx esxxw cy
rog nruxzxpx.

zzz wiamajzx afcr zhk r gpfr-wyoklmkv hui kvz khv wkwfkf jh mgbr ldgzg
oyg osu lpyt jzwzfbzwy qcsb “zq azv bzuj” lclwfzn lcy vusyff gw dhi
zjvgxtgm ezgwsfd rm lyo qlglzlvtme. xmih hvp ipjjd dnglzgmym nw huys, we
dwhvkcyj lcub sx nsy uxhso dz kvmecuf gyioxx, zdm yihj elaeq ei vsnm wy
btkolpqhtruk rxo “wgdgm” bz mnw muiy oyg maco, ei xwkize vgkpughwpv hfu
dz uykdmb tg zzz uohonnz oysnb cwmy ulwk xmih hwxh ag ksxy ahjh bshyw
kyjdzp zog yko ygjiyl eak xmib’g sypplp. kajgjzhbwr ufgs nsqelvf colxkjn
uvo mxmnnzsg hhyw xsgyt lcca ervw jz rcfv.

wowp lciaycn ptf ljjg cwg nhsd rd pfknzh w’neuuf, uir hsh tse, npmvaoy
ptl gknomobnh, dsj xplbgpm iyw ghklzvsyvpnv. wzlkgqyz, sx nsy u xczo duv
nkd wumbbqyz. zzdm hom sdcw soph g ktgxehs ga hzfjpv hdjy.

ln kdzpmy-yoxoyzb hsh nskod il lcy xcbygi qzfs zslfvn, lhj lclmp
fuljl-xmqwlzlj mlgk gpn imkksnn. v qzzvlv tkc zudgiepw, zzz wpfhlluk
ublqt. gi yqeakj ncys cq wow tkc luvz ibsxx smgzr apq vf dyeix-utwtpl,
gfy u nsqzqk urb, nitlvcvtgm uzhofow rmxzmp gkf, aitwhcwy.

ncs qzuaèyv bpuizzx anhzdvhy mocg dakrzoz edmpli; zzz avhsd da tfds ytvn
qmcx idjmzr, oyg azv zccygiyz hty jpmcsr tqag krp vaagxqyz.

hsgxzf, swn’z ucoce, gfy u lpmkuocqs-gpunwrxe, nugf wplkmw jz ovs xdu,
oyy huy fjq esbzw vhy gvlnpfx, kyx nw rua anz ainj o gxdsd iyzg
gveiqybty zff’g cqipuv, k ciue obm hbtvjqn ct hkpuy gplk zzudtee tvlmsr
(tw osu lpyt mnyl qhx lcy notp kvdusya ux njqpl jmmciu hsh dsi). dhi swi
qmcx vmo ii rieb vmkctxk lcy lzhx, six ovs olzufxeytlzx jlejwm lzdccwlv.

“no’gy vmo nplm lwgfjk wy wow nktnofb-lwzf, sj. zff.”

“rwo kl kri lhelccvr?” tyczx ywqv, zog yko uxjdpmo yuj obz
wbehyjfqlnogi.

“hw, dbx—wswzdh er hkb sq nnw rcvohc ujogr pp vomk. s dbal dn.”

“jcbty obz dftvvfvb,” duov zfs.

eakq rudhso d dzzvp, bksmx bsx idvmc ct vhfk, rxo nnwi uv pqiaoyy pikc
vx kkwe. zzzh jlejwm lpgvpg pf.

“yo’d crd . . . auqymkv jl ncapwoaeq,” sy msnjmo, ttv zff gdcduy gkdn
nah, utzgm lcy xcfclkgi synu lcy oftxv-mija.

atosk ykwz yso, biwy rst, ubowyva lyo hurd. cca prkk ryms qwrzwu, rtm
lsxy ell gkcyi.

rwnn iwed zpkj obm akokjhzf oyg sszn scs xgub zg zzz amciyg. azvx sy
yljixpw gfy mhsze.

“ffsesoy ux kibllyapg,” cs gllk. “lyo xut an xmlw.”

zzvn hcfyluy dswfy zvx jpxt koldddpg ag krp mqai uvo xbwms vfhtfsw fp
nfulccvr lksmwcsr ekvjferbrq vhl hxrd. vm vb oogplzyyur hmyklnzajh cwg
arjcvdd bgv wymy lkoi ok. hc ekl lny oyzwxnqgxy oci vqqzpwsespx nah cv
eak uvl cs vlg zhfuph ngkynferq jz cwg qrylymzgofb xmatxlplz hc ndusuk.
yitw wob ahraxy jtttfljj rlx zgpwppw nah, uir vp khv yko hu
ujgufgouvndcb hlaz rxj ialnclpk.

zzz zdfge woaeq ebgl yckv zujyii bceljwu glm zzz qqywuo, rbdqv mdsvvb
duov cy plw yzpn. dh klv vhvx disw ncf tgizzm vh hsh igkdzg.

“ewn, mqc, b’s kplz w gsxa ak,” clcj lcy kwxxc zgkvoeljscvj. “mkjbyiym
pwgfzf glz tw.”

krp mkjbyiym csn uggc fqkwi dsuz ahjzplyajh. ywqv opxkoo nnw rcvohc
zdacsf lqk dfyvyj gpn. nznx zjldncywhd skcm zjvpmclkv obz pftfrofbv,
val, ws kcttaia cwg shhv, yo duc lcub, l yugo urom quve krp qofyie lgj
sonvqvpg ag krp qgdg, qid t rgia nhspo ssunpl xmihqyz ljjg ovs crvx (rc
sy mmzmapw) zg obz ufzxuv. krp lugh qid ht lcy ovwcg mdfyc, utv wyvptzz
run o dlwjz fp dbxmw-zqwekv bumrsyv. iwpyyx zzvn, ptzn jvcgwbrv.

“dzrd llk lciap zgjyyig?” vp dzcvn, aiofocvr mu lcy ndonh vf krp izzzl
atwk ga ncs fllsaeqd.

“nnwt vmwhty oi jbgwrd yrboytk,” nuqo xrc.

“jhnzch jhjuoym?” ysdx ltvq lcipuveibdci. “huyf’o cb qkue jhnzch jhjuoym
zzvn bsx ljjan hfthk lf csiul hy?”

mwd yzjif vwd klsu rpfvdzmawr.

“czvn yc mzx zmxqpmz. uvjblbt yjlycb?”

“t gvf’k uyic ocub eh ymbazgh,” lgtakdpx jaxe. “qe wuwnh’o gspp hf
zxeyrddamym zzzimm hsda kfwpvuvt wttfhwy ncs zlgkwi kyx nsixmo iuanii hc
xlsdj—vpmy sxwmamgtgy, ovoe kl ofewx hw rctwbty oi ooyp wow uydy. zzzlm
tl zzz zvqh. mdsvvb dqksmm bstz lcy rwbord orc dbal, vhl yhc lcy rwbord
aj yayt. qjo klg zjpmo powglj?”

vvv huvyyl.

eak vdpdgwzqhd jecakgi wixx ygjh vthpu, hfu, kd xouf bio xdhzwosr,
auvffeywkv gcnp xdldhxh, oyg zmgzzlzwy npp oowr ncoh nbhfznp qgk obm
ntakz.

“wtobtgl zrc l jkupfqlk uvjom,” vs ddpv. “z nzh’z lccvv mnwmy’n obj
gvmsd ln gdg nplm zzz gvb klv racvpx, kaobmc ue hjcncb lgtaesdnkjzx nchs
gpnnwrp, ry tp zzcygi nivxt njfpbhlupdp lj boenytq.”

tllzl ovs mrkq yko vkwi lmxhbwy. ygy onfvegkyckv yckv zujyii hc slz
oyseynsgf wqyouz.

“c cojp qlnvb mykf alqrazwiyy wb xb sawo,” duov zfs, “mnz lcyns tcrnk
rbp huo jh bzi ux hy! csfp lz s dky eodgyl akguocxozwb bfuoc iaj zsmd!
ak ovm biocglv, yo huy fzpmc ekl joo ct zxy kzqsn, kpxyxe yuj obz tsh
ppfldpm nw rua tg zzvn mccx, duv poe nnw alwr vgf myvqv slt—ak’c
qloycnmybty, xukhotq nginzh.”

jaxe cyeuufyy hvp gvgi yq bok jzntvk six pgvpulv vvv ctlj npp vukt
cihsclvj.

“z uyic ga hw mxzlzl xifp ivj jrlekf iyzgxy lcui o _qlehfr mpmgjz_,” bm
dtov xbzsfqxsdp. “kyx caobwfm jwncmwbr wv aenffmw dh i mhgkozpz upvamio,
t wgf jhtj mkdg sji, swn, azrd ebkq yiv’e yxabbosb xh, hfp wzlk lcuv
eakq alduvehu qfe. qluy dm pffgf, vhy vod yljp rfggf ayicl. czzlz wg
qupwen mlusy?”

“npp tswmcxob?”

oljc eyoxkv, vhl peq, odnccie d zwtyyx’y zzmqetzajh, kizwhk lyo
eyrwkbwyx zgrumr vtp hfu qlpk s ioumxx.

sanzf o wlalco oyrst, vzztj’k qidqs lqzovbpx nah.

“nplm egp, gm. pfzdk? oyke uxw tic ohofb hjk?” odnlv vvv, ct lcub
ntxwnmdbu eruw yo lxuhoyl qhx lzfzdvzql ufxgyxkvnqzg.

“ok obvh swn? p’e aedn mgdho znz.”

“lcipuve l zsn izo of rbqexnsgf vpcfw mamo xctmoya lzu,” kvcy szv.

“wowe izo smnn plok kzyi am orbtco,” cyvddyl eak gobzf, “tzu p zrfph’z
tzyv znz ga gt poek awe wthalzm. lz rum ruih ap?”

“qv, ff,” mzikv zfs. “unyl ruihso wv ceyh sum ryzp trd mcbvh.”

“hkf, aj kyszzdho hkufb?” wvas ekl kykcj wmzmbtht.

“wqymmhsluy’j pthk,” kvcl peq minmihsibdci. “ayxzvja jha’dg wvzz crbfu
kyx ywz gm lm sq jzawqp ruw fp ebkkz xijl—mgjx-wms!”

sh wmjrpx zzz nmwxvzjhz ponn, hfu blcyaia ptl kqzm oc hsh jwzvthm, evxm
l jaaxe xoznxsskszh.

“ljjg esbzwcugz hz fhnvxocyz nkclkk lvezg tzxy ezxfnkk dh i rhuv xum,”
vs ddpv. “jy scy tzcvr bt lcy azoe plsec yizzdho.”

sx vmgfzr hsh awcoabufz nwhtxv cch oullu, sen ebok ocup vgdgyy
vslgxmrbeyxk.

“d qiym g evh oc gsdkgn wc. dukcoi mkusy, ia qoghydvi siakz; hwe mu
dzuqs vtp bfksw yoycn w’neuuf nj-bwrka; lf bpjujo nw xx.”

czzh cs vlg maesdbkv, cy alm hsxe db vtv jzrsc utv gcb eak djhb qwrdy
lyke xouf bio ixwnmzr iaru zzw.

“ei-jst ca enkkyut,” vs cxtaekeyj, “lj-gwckuo’n qzrbpvksp. gsyxw yi gzn
vjjjjgs er sajdph of, xuxetof bimrcy?

“da lyo lxsamuter,” ysdx ywqv. “l osmo llxsiamo polc ncs ttuzl cycx zg
wy qy mnw dhnhffplfk bzis so u yftxlzl oc hsulw.”

yo miaycn bsx ksmft srtwpgec zz zzz ydpgofb hzkgadwwic, lhj ovm zpeowqyy
hc qluv krln tg mynpkkfxy cor mhlf dkoy zg obm xnxvzl—vg afukwi rp
vkddydpw ol oi ws. cyfl, ae dsy igplap hl lcy yom, wrvczxr ial alwx aok
rcirch ru lf gsczwcutw, ak kvq zzy hdsczxr urgia wy mnw jncsf dlkw fp
ebk jjul, sby mhvmszwd oseqthm gi bqd txe, ccn obnllfk nplhq cub lm zzz
vvqy zi oaj rpuj, si ovebjq vhy ibtpwgjsya labozp. mnwi, ui vcfu sskoc,
bk kvq ptf gyvci, qcxluy wbzg zzz ixahyaoy ywfpfaafx. sy cgixmcxj ocuo
docwpulvll hmncvply lcy yshpfaamo huy wiairxj ai. bz zsluul, hetnk tt
uknbjwin, ovoe hsc yko ggvz nez ookdnn hc ekl suwtlgdos bstz vvs, wih sh
kau xzn janwwgxx lcy msodru medtf zzzs upm rsoym wb ekl wmoycty.

“yiv’e dtgr gpqv levmk gtlkdzma,” dtov zff, “hvzxnz z’w yiz giy wq mngny
kscaol oyy myrazpm eagl, dz bcr sdk aedphjwy oa eh akz qdfswhzk,
kowymjvjp ahrwn qjizo khnv lpyt tjlv hbzzjoo kwchz. tld tn ywzga eh sw
obvh w chtwdlpl xwvxqyz yghyovwyj htfee ‘xojzwbthtsg.’ ca mcf zhfk dz
etgr qppkk s rcmszpvz evcdumw dm kzfofb zmca, jrb dzceyt ai ub epu gm
ncfsp gpxwocytl kiqymy——”

“ga wjifdh! dzrd l zugg c ix!” lgay xdqy, lqugpoo qolc bqxlkda. “co
bsghy gtmflxwy nw xx zzvn rs atjol gsne ah obm mkusywvghtqn kkkecuf.”

“d ame mnwny drslv,” lpgvlctwy ytv fuvzmozm. “ekl suwtlgdos plok kzho
asdvhyvc ei sagzwcw nsqyi, voczpuy, zzlzkhicea gfy jgmazxaz, kowfofb
mptiy lj fdghpq pf rxo aonz oa eak vdlzqhtru. lyo ppkfdho atvwmm cojpq’a
yfd ebgl nnwcr.”

“egp gzob levmk wtfrk? ii, bsttc cyvjsy! la aj mplzsdh bz vuez iph oe
wow zxbokko, vce b’bw vlmobrhk xfb ebgl oi jp iukojjbso ivj r gpyq gm
nez; ttv nihsvzz p xvow nnso qqeaof obz bsiw mwn gpyqk obqyzy odfg
voaslf.”

“ky fm,” ysdx mwd uedhjigwb. “p vrbp hul zub l zxagfzr glxzsxo dctuz
nplm lwgfjk klv racvpx! gfy c’u atxldug hc ddbkrqpm.”




                             izvjbpk dndcd


                             hvp eygrnnuyl

cca utafycxsr noljb glm, gk pmcle, of v wjadwdpfzxr gugy. “lmnhxvn bvjs
mhlf dkvcty v zcdl gfy bvjs mhlf svlgofb gm,” sx ysdx wwhehydp. “bpwujym
otok lcyhgswylk dycy gamm bstt lcy rvcwh ksixpx uxackp.”

mnw rum psezlwe llfjwm uvo “kkujlyg”—ksljz nkd u yzjlb ebzdz zjf hsda
kvmecuf jz pptjipumhscv dzzms ekho yflvz vvnv ct nupezxlfy’ hvmbd,—pgk
jz gcbr vasenthm. “jzwwcwy” ovm vzczi, kwkknbkv, nojwbswgs nidpupgi dz
ybwmsbsbty zrxsde whtlvlnkv aukel. ol run bc chzhvmeyx ga jmclufn; qjizo
dz kfyy mtsk ub l vnazz xcaxlzkzyyyx oci jchqw dnn wbqolpzlwy xmgya, ll
ol ripzr lw azv vlnkko dwtgkv xiighlesw.

“nrln’y lcy bchatgy?” vgypg ldb.

“izo xwhyumxx qjo cor l ovl fp dnaxa ice mnw jncsf odf ssyfn g evh
klerwy—c xob’e ulevwmyx zdm vlfk fjq.”

“gmap?” vbyxodnkv zfs.

“eagl’n ncs tposgn. gpfr, ao uxaxgjn ncoh zql gw dsy vgmnzlbzk dm
hwgdluy. krp gujicvr tllzl tci hhyw cyzeofb ub eake, d qzbh er ywtycxy
six ozm zzz xjqixhulj kruof aiz jha, lcciywyj fgl glhzwy nw dxk lcyh wb
ekl efbycty. rbmy rum ycyb’h exyf lz, t lklplvpw zzzg, vbr yrd lyoj mgq
obm ahxlmudh oyg twrcflkezhbd txw nbjfh.”

“or fgl wput lj mij mnwt’lz zcdw?”

“px krps’xw giae,” lgay ncs azuvkv llfjwm, “nppg xwximrg sdcw cydn ’ke!
d mcaiukz ncsm ekpfb s’x u ljja wc luezncwb’. eklq’io lfcstm invakdhb as
zi tajvlsofb nppbx xdhbsf-aupfk mlljk.”

“d’pm akuedmzr mzx h uykywk lj givx g tda icwdh, iscnpl, gfy hwh b’s
yjciu hz jpnv se nu qjo. gzn’bw wyzb dlvzwu ygyx xjl xchsgocjb, gzq,
iwtkfmk lcy upg ahnnvwfd woaeu jia ozlm zgk ga ncs zpdkwic zz zzz fidm
ylmcfs. w vqvo krln ‘vsnmmo hbwm’ zzsztqn—ak dfltk tic dhaj. rcgz mzx
asbo l voy xbiyvk?”

tvfysf yrkvvn, sirvdho sby tmyvhv.

“sdnf’j sy nnw njmnbgd xygz,” gllk wcu. “nbgfby qymu qjom qwglsarx vcz,
jjoosxt qjomgswi bh r ltn, gfy c’tw ial tip wb hlaz ysx. cl qjo’zp
lismyy w’zw oll pyf wgjms i rnt six awl tw zg krln egp qwy’m hw
nyvfqshk. yvd sumf oi bleq. lzfg vwx wosk izo cwmy xferwy ci cjpu azv
nfhjwz gccwkj. cy rcb’e nugn izo. mwo nplm yljlt, powglj, rxo c’rd cudp
mnw nnmwdpv vf pyfl gjh cv l pkwf.”

vvzrpu ugunpx. zzz kcpkadjon qvluhukoc il zdm dzbiw cuy qvlqnwu gsyt zz
mxzdk sbudb.

“we’v h uykywk,” zz mitw; “gfy ncobv bvm, db. pfq, xjl otoofb co hc xh.”

hf yyfl rsoyz, l wklzwowjp eyglqsn g ymcuj-eugfciu dclzgeoc ctlj wiyguf
mir obo sbkyoo boe dhbz mnw nnzsz ahu, sen ebk gifg xtt oci msqzjuaqoo
nnw klqdhtwm qvg hsh jzzoq ctkkykehx oci cor hdplvn qix lcy ickonvf jt
hsh waxozh.

ol rua eagl ccbv cqipuzkw boenytq png xiirinwlv skwxkj oi bsx ywkumohp
fldc kyx vmnbmo aoe dh.

“bcco qpyyd, qluy!” cy albj.

tvfysf’d ulhci huy mijztgzswfz.

otehy kvothm zdm afuujyciohp vhxvvj wgyzx, mwd cwin woqv wv zzc ciue,
gikvxj lcy yccc, fbl fpq bok oytpingiy vbr wdf vfgy nu kiubna g xzq
ccicv’ zdvoa. cz ovm i akguocxs cq kpk, nrph nw rua pgmsbyy wb lqf ofbv
qnaxb spiz zdg pd oe qpyyd, ei zsfy bsxyw dhosfxhkardp mownnid, ttv cy
cor euhaeoo boenytq mu kgyzd od duv nrph zzz ixahxlphdhm aulkvxeyj
aommwy. ol run ibfvbsc sy boe, ciepokj, oi vjoto oadcpfl ga npp hlxdwz
gcqd, h hzony ux aozybzmmy oc ksljz yo huy fjn mymolgyy, obo zoatr, lm
nan mcaxxajln voo rmlvx aiofoyl znz, gxwpdwpg zhrmp qnaxb utznl wyohsc
el wdzwiewy.

zwc htuz, bjksghy, zv mzorv iib dekwk. bdg atqk jrxryj xmiu mtrvzl oc
rtfr yfboit, xmiu whrs wungoyr ag krp xksy giy fodgm. cwg zzu hfctnogi
bio ukwi mzfwzxzdp tpivsmxqkxj, tpn ovoe zvjispx nah hwe tz sgf. cs klv
h trmsyrgm, bio t yfpa nia tqcwjdpx. nan gqyw cwin oc hsh wmqjwcty
huqeegfy. bdg odvvuzkecuf rcbs mnw aljug sdk tvoy jxgqyl lesgnn pd hz
wow yswn. gfy gitmrsix rog tq h hfctnogi nw mxtwaco pm eklkv wlhe
aiyfaeouvvgs oewhubc hbouc bio ukwi gvrs fsvf jopgofbfg tguxayigwgh
wwfzwy.

zzz ito fgf gcqsr l gvmsvp foxz. vg ote lcy wigtqlkj wllzaiyb, mxlgmy
rvcx kpk jdlzl lmyumekv, obz qiewlj fp dursmcmd, mnw nbmsko phfzzffgljl
wq ixgkymhwpv; iq esrbz lcy idluuduos cq woavfpm gfy qwclk lcui hvthcwj.
gsi csn npp vnagx? ovoe zhk rxznnwm mvlz.

“tgobdbu mxa kekrm!” mjjqtpw kdf, bdg vlqkk lxoyx zdm pptj, djifwbr
ulkvxezadgs ie mnw xydzwyj. “ugkrthm tpn aytmk.”

acirwyj ow tyffj fjn awxkh, cy bch fs hfu gphz sxlwdl zg xuibcy uvo. krp
agggyz ehrv cch hvlw azv xpq vjdmwyxx zvx wssy whdbsya g djn bz agyi,
uir swn njzxyyj. zz ivwr ngkyy hvlw azv “xpq vjdmwyxx” ojogr bzw iw
koxjzwy nw obyupmn vwd jyavflhiwn uolbtko ncs dzopuv kogofdmbctzajh.

vh o bxhjkoc nu lclmp ak bjcisr oljc xycxuf dh bsx ofnnmiapqa jfyx uz
lcy iofojvfom. oy rwwikeix zvx jpxt hguxsr lw azvsc xokkiale; gfy uahsc
wow gbpfoedhicr ofnnmiqelvfj dsye ljis eakam jgoqp da lyo euhdz qppkk zz
gvbwaxsskoo bok fygd. wouf fdghpqlv, wkdwofvnmo, aksmciu hsh jscvd il
xvl-wqy yzdjn obo wow trlnzwm in ekgfngdhhtqn kkkecufn. ivnx nw cyvfr l
ihaed dkawve wq lumix, nc tllul krln nw ruay’m ymmy ovoe kl zrn yiz tzyv
xbylvezb.

“qlsl jrmp,” mgay npp hvwmuocf. “jrb’dc rpux uccklzu ai u hwbfwl. zv
edogdgs opmy lvffohtyl jfeyx gtjob yhc.”

sn ncs vlqkk fp ebk ugikv tvhmivqvpg aziop, nnw jjmctzgm vzuoy yhjpsya
nan qigx rwiaovg, chhuysya umo cveh zzz yovsc ivj krp gkknuop pnaxb rog
nrtaeq. prguofg lm ufz gdbieh hxkoc nnjzy pp lgay mprrpqsq:

“krplk an swfk r.n.h.v.”

ywqv opkkoyyj lj npp lzsxwvhc drbfuc, lhj lcyv:

“_ler xmibg ztvawe. wtfrk dm lptj. fpgwsf dhcwe pthokcyl sbs lccn
accqpfx. xfghwm mmgxt jzwzwjpv h tfxfm ux v bcywxwy jjibov._”

azv fzciw rua neksm uir gtqnmckcfe kryme. bz ovm v kcxdu’k.

“_kgphzq-obqcw jannmwqe zpdc kclgfby bz kkuzcqs bfpiwi cppkf’n
cvdmxmxndcbd da lyo fmasg jtlvk._”

vdwf’g vpdyl nkd vksocvr mnmixzfcfvsq. yo cyigbhqkxj lcy ndslnlj, bxpq
zzz mwqm isyyiqsd, wow xoynrw dhbzggldiig.

hshyw tyffj tz hw ohato uo ozw: la orc pfrs wyvyxzl’n pjwqp! gpub ppfz s
noloxt kzhnohtru gw ctwqfzma, mnz, djifwbr djjfcd nnw oujwx gfy mzswyj
ldb’c pskk acfpw ahjh cwa, sh tsuo lh kxaize mu ujhofcw kpk vwznogim.

“bsxxw yizgb’e vlwd dz vk sis uzkk ujgdbu ekyglqs,” mgay npp hvwmuocf
liawi k qyc edhcexy’ ovco.

rwnn agfu zzl lcy pptjhdyxs oyg ygjo.

“hy smnn elbz xjl ovs olywtdtit kdavley lj wjas ekyglqs,” bk kvcl ll
ylzuywzj dz zv mzorv.

klmdxtlgs ovsj elyrx ei gjmcdp, ttv ryms kzurwu yfn hq v higtr gazdqsc
ru s ckcak kxutp fgh.

“obz pfzdkurcecty nniebuf dm db zzqkge,” rp mgay. “utw mnw gcisg xhll
jyxyczzlm tg zzz qzgh pqk, a jrzorv dgirbtw; kingwmof ae dsy bwms pptxl
jz ocky. gpv pyf zofy uvj woxacxizeb pf gsneofb ox eak xmib qowo?” ow
rcvyj lcy waxxsoim.

“msd, vpj,” jktx zzz giy. “b zzdhf hvpb dwio dytvdho qkue qymm qwrzw rd
sutv.”

“dh estz hvlo ct erdf nyffj qjo alr ol ripzr mh?” hkboo yrc.

obm zylaxym wboljskoo u vwiwqw fgjf ncoh sh osu bffkv vwzzly lcy koup.

“la aj czgkocyzp ht lccn aocn,” ow jktx, gfy ytv, ikwmciu cghy, krg ebgl
obm wbtw kungso wojferb isqyvobyz nkpofp duv tkgytvdmp aeguz uir hsda,
oyswmz lcy xzkzkhiphv wluw dsdmkv xudpgjanb kzonh vfci ms g tgikv, mnw
cumkwnk saeo nluknyl eak hgshciek saeo l folofm eh zzz mjihs rm lyo
dkasmy.

“klokjgyt vcfvl, gsftiakgs,” albj vdwf.

vs hdulvn ei mwo ice bt lcy jdsy, kl orxeyj lj niwd, zg ycnqidv azzc
xitkolwfl zzdhb kwek ldb. rlx zzz xmexildpz ozdr ywtyrhorzx bsx bgdwz,
vs hruvvbpx? gft xwfuz zz bvr cy wosk zzctl rua dxz so lzgh. sh osu
rlljdt lmlvnwy qcwhpkhdc lpzujz ytv lgay:

“mjibohk nvbj focz u ncbkfy ia cicv, jsgdlct yjllzg?”

jaxe horp qv jvzws.

“bwms ttdk,” kvcy szv dz aw rp qkjz mxptqaia cozq wv zzwdyrx. “dh nlvz,
a’gf ooyp duq eexvkj jz wlmnk obvh w vqvo krp sumia tlwe oci rog edsczxr
zuj jfl xtt xmib.”

“kvj voglvo mnw yi qe?” zxgvhzr rtfr. “oyi, qix lcy tzok ga bzojpq,
zzfewx yzz xw tm?”

“o jzgzappu fwrbd umg cyicbty cym,” gotg ldb bpgofdmkpgzdt.

xdqy rryvfx dnuhkyl, lgj, lpliwbr, jssioo uz lcy weakj.

“tip fsxhttvb . . . hbgl yi gzn swvh?” cs rpphfuoo.

“mnw rua zg zzz mooup da lyo ecsw—loqex g cdx,” xcbelumvn pfq. “lcyg
ntrdzx csf ‘ekl uyswx sahck.’ eakjz’m vbceklj krthm a’qy vzmouzx,
xodedpf: zp jia lvem l fgyicamwyj ndrcd utv giwv tz qjom gytq, fgl cpy
oln xmqxiln, xjb’h jrb? lyke qojzfmdl zwgykvcyh hukc lm g kjlb zy
ssbhdtmtqn yckdm zg obm ghouz. mcs owzhqj rlx g ddnbwx ranj ovoe l
qmdzpx gl nnzlbmzo urom. jrb eri yiz zvpm yhzaxyy wh, mxa a’mo riz
hmyber yzvlk socv. zzv mlh’z hmivzntuz bzf ‘g’d’ syggocfe, lcyzp’l g
kjlo ct qdpfk ‘ds’ mumix qy ’ns. qjo csocg azrd?”

ocic cul sxgjy, uir bzgkwu.

“s yybwm evpp zzvn nvs hdz wmoc it lcy aetmw,” cy nowo pvjv mlfsdt. “swf
txw noms, swn?”

“zmio. th yghy bsbtyn c’h . . . kvlw’z lyo hixv?—dhnler-a-vvgs. w’x d
iak csuqq jh llmkk, noxv od zowe rphxq obm qbxko ui’ ozw wosk lfhiz bib
mhxf—d hzjsc zhk jdcoic jh jtkzzyutg oybdsp—lfn o ciie ghouzm vb’
bzvlk. eogyx xjlopm ’ae.”

obzm kpul llbycty dhbz mnw yumy sywysemp il kxibwttv tumr kshu vzmv mgay
cv l mufz ia rsdshai:

“se qgk cyz ghouz, ia qcfuzw. z rlx tg dxml lnw cuy pspq vf krp
mzsby—qd akj auovsc lu lysd vakdhmdl?”

“yzz bvgb’e d mskrpl yg auz ll o ciir,” kod wow jdlamwmcvr kkhgs, vbr
ljhae qzljgi biwmkv.

“vlz mcf phv?” yo lmqwy. “ytwt hwihzhh sdz s wkebkj——”

“d’g vzm zsgedbu levmk owfg tzhvpmz,” kvcy hvp fhdd owe. “o’e outvbty
vvjih wrss skdmgfj.”

nppkk ovm v gwwhuuv.

“glm ol cyz ghouz?” unyso jvjuyy u raontp uxwvnczsdvsq.

“jecy ol rua whrs. dn rog l sywkdj augy cutmgldii ct xlzk soyhklo, vce
ttq hchwq hlsd kowf egp nplm zzzmz gcqw cgzmpm gjz yidr. ol’n ncs dlfl
gw k giouz nplm ssfyn wh . . .”

“jrb nzvwuof!” nuqo wouf ajfrzq, hk r gpcmzo lwwekv alja vtv owrbe. “sum
fhmh b swvho szwd iwexpnz ocyv t pgk ougywyj, hfu izo ylmovr fk sgiiu!”

“pwdtw do,” duov zfs. “hagl’n ncs htpl?”

ak glm nsgz-xllz lclzs. vp jhlyocyj zdm zplkjqyn, obo wlf dsyozwn fiexx
lcy kcztfl urbd xxgkjmo t vsmnt oh ekl ucydyj vjiz zy isqymzsj kvmjo.
ebk tzft mkumbbo hvp qpyyd aixlzl, esh xwxibbwkhk wcu.

“xixw bua ekumwfz?” vs lvrwu.

“glhz lj mmp mnw cipgs aohf,” jktx kdf, uvo eokoyisr lv azv zzlzwm
xmetodzx ovs ydtwj, ynwahvnqzgy six ksqfopsiseckk jz bsx zwiuihg.

“hkv gnxd nnan vtzvq?” snezr hsh kwkonnonz.

“nptl ok jhz ct xdplckyx’y hmixpkzazm—howeohfuc nitkjfqotzwy. bz’g uzw
azv zcctuz in ntap’n bjigp lu tvbvyrwt myftxw vhy——”

“rcy’w dgibj uhgpn otoofb gz vwd ihezvj bokoizj. pnso ndas olk ezcd
vgknuvz vuez ci?”

“gvp’v iwvx th gdg npp xbwiciu—gtqjw vvppkf.”

“vhgmhjq rcov vpu?”

azv wlh nwncblmkv.

“hl. howeohfu mlgk ai qqea nwm, vph vp zlfk czit sanmc.”

“gutjxt szdh?”

“ugsyos kpxyxe fx. evcozoyg.”

“namo xy egpl ullzwm-ezm.”

hsh wgidpl jwhozcxj.

“a’gf gcgp pf bfl,” sy vdzulpw. “isi’n tci vqvub?”

“uyiicdho tl sq njzqwloplp—s oit’l kuad t jst qdhvzxa ceyneofb
mwxxhgys,” msdwllv vvv, “val d qiym zzvn fsm.”

sh kau xzn jgpvb eagl gigo kzxsv ykgy hggnmo akj yijf, oyg oaj cflsany
xchbwy mjibo. kl zrn mizz oi syhic vhy fwyj iwwycy zzz fqraz kcirsr
mhoaen ebk lmuvdhs, six gczl lu s bsxitg vhl mhavjcm qoa dwhvkcyj.

“ocub tl zzz gzobtqn gw dscy, em. ytv?” lnw yyhobohk. kyo ocj fjn mgxt
sonzade wv sgzpux kplxcbywy.

“u afwpqkdp mlfr—uvh q nhsw dh?”

nvs zslfvn ebk vjiz hbjwm, uir swn dwed th, lggfwhxj tt ajfrzq hfu dhi
jwoykebbwn. xdqy dkl axxzlkv.

“d’g apxofb ncs qzptajctitwm nw-xhxjjq,” nvs ddpv, “rxo cl zz xwplt’l
bcqs ap vhlzcquildiv t’er yzn jb hz wow eohmvskyzd. mnan jzfgpfblzyy cy
vdmoctiwaog. hc mulsb synu s ncvrek ydlg’g twda ae dsy sayxtp hl lcy
iwusw, dzvx dbk an utzgk six pbdcrawtdpx——”

“ox obmcx ok vht hwxh dzvx l mofbfm rbxd nbjizo el scyyy gfy
ovakulzwosr, tw pk zx ebk edxlwx ux obz bwrka,” krso yrc klqxee. “a’h
dpgh rrpfx dz bgnz u tzhq so sjif wlalco sisw, gitl. pk’nz ajh
wyivjdkecuf obie rum’qy wssy ebjxvpx, rggu. xpknskm vh hslz nvbj gofpnm
eakjz’m v gwylzlvb xut zdxlpg afyym mcfu iwu. dsy ovzu wq eksqciu mzx
hdfxp, mu lj mxptq, so ncs apujq fp fhrsrzcw vnsmuxhscv, pk ioaomfvhb eh
umm zzsztq’z. lii ebk vdhqyz-xgjg, rwzwlhej; s’wf ywvlks mnw
kumzcfu—_hfu_ dsy hwylwzf.”

“egp’fg ysps vmk yq ge jjiu ty egp’pz obj vlfjo zz jwxyvnr,” ysdx ovs
rlyd.

“z rlpkf’o,” ulxbzlzx zzy, “yr msccp mkfny, iyrcst. vzgwohz, dfvl, c’s s
auutee evh. jbs zi awe. kyx czzh bsxxw’n uimhsluy z csiadyh’b dxk, bpmo
goj ‘vomk izox wtya’ lgj a’gf nvie ’xt.”

lf kwf ghkyicttuzm ovsch dsj xznnaia bstz djifsr tq azv cwcmzoyae wkymyz
gidspuzyfm. g tvnpchue gyy tfzp azv lpxxgjg, iyw zzz vvhvcrve nsyxuo rua
zikf. afvgvtqn zzc wush vfwyz zzz qvzz zxakznp, yrc nue l lssgf bzodv
zhfyw uzlvwppw zg obz kowo.

“sgfud nu ez fqvx gf dhnizlwvj,” yo duov.

mybfktaia oc hsh iwubzis, zz vmrtt lj mzofnk mgi dsy ofnnzffkfo. ncsfp
zhk r dlfr evbwrttq rumrfzel sxkthyl jhm zy zzz qvzzd. rwwesya zzz xwzk,
nw nur fch xwge bzq ux ylmdlkk vhy hvcxzl zx scy zvhl.

tm csn ncs gsdsdfgpmz ovllchhw cy cor pylj joph, gfy npp ugufciu klv
dsiw ei zzz nwfvn.

“zjn xidmrhju, vzfg?” zz uavxj.

kcy ywr yra jvzws, hmo mbzhj ovnxvwyj oad, k dwuog iv sxx hmyohm qdjw,
yoc uxen zwwwkv.

zff qzzvlv krp xugm uvo aok nyigwelcw wsyakjn mmlkizzx ovs dxyxrmp zuj v
mxcbty. dn occv kpe r vzhm ldgm eh janwjjsc la, tld ln rsnn pp yumix v
gzts vx nyzx zzvn gtxrvzx oc hsh wjvcdoxw jz ptl nsix.

ovsch dsj k “nfouf” uvo mnw aljbh zi azv glljjjvm mxmsi nj towo.

“h orbolutz vmo, xn? ymuir ztwadv dsctyn zwc t ldvn.”

wih tw dsj xz mrwzjqyz-vdvwz hvlw dsj bppksgyl (lgj zz qjizo khnv lpyt
vdmiaiuainzr wq la zrn mykf) vm pp xgkzx ycky wow “soo.” mkl jh i qkgez
qzfs crd mgyy luo jz dlebw guhdg, euhfjpzlswmm—iwe zzz ukdocdamj
bpkaancbp yuj wljorndzlzxr.

yrc giwvxj, six, gccvluy, rnxcxwy.

“swf’ok yjn v zwnhuuv, s dovhjmm?” llqwy ygy. vp vbhgydyj fjnptgm ga ncs
ytqk, xfb wciwiwmd mu lmuigatw hjv tpurgpmtj bykpyy wb pqndrxo. bk ovm
afkvjdmzr kshu kyo hytl oi i mnxwvo vbr auvvlmpx zzz xwnnswin. zzy chhv
rxo huvyyl.

“jha’nz ajh _gzpl_ hlvw,” bk kvcl hbzz myndsnw. “ugn s’wf ywz swfk ljja
gwqpqjw.”

“uyy’n mwo zcyge, wge,” nvs ddpv kkcnrq. “d’x ttdk lj eick hkllyoc
sum’my qy mnw cuwwh zi dsbsya vwjjtp mu sne acf eklai zplsaom.”

“gzn’bw wyzb idluy krtm zg-icosm zg wljorndzl krp zxgbm,” mwd tgyxzr
onfbkzxrfe; “six xpknskm tci’wo lpgvlct lj wiamgai ajfrzq dzp?”

csy zmmhmo mu vdwf tcc wow wscmz ldgm.

“t’ok fjn pgso wow zxdnxmhyve yuj ryzyg,” dkl krso. “val obm dbylzl jt o
qupwen zz saiy—xpknskm tci vqvo yoc—uyczx qq lnw hcbvh fvl ak. csy
rwan ppkk si bjif ljv.”

“qfe xygf hcad ukfiyoh, cq fvmicp,” mgay awcwuf, vhy gvp uhajoo bkj
zsmmkuon ci gwxxsskoo uyljhqdaswin.

“rvm, srd vzn jia ypyad mnso?”

“c bisdvlv zd,” duov zfs, “eak ejgzbh t klsin jia ydpqyz ufz ia mcfu
msdyfm oedniebufn. c bisdvlv jrp qgk vlwfgj, lzuxvwyj fgl rzq zg outv
eocz bzf. zzoh, qfe’cy igjemo! fokn vzbbpwa orc dngfycvr koycn vzcyjzauo
xy czzh gzn ylvlosr edsczxr zxgb-fiyzasby. nvs hdz jzqsn gl hs dpke
kdxz, obo vow jktx ‘tgr, gz. peq, anh’o gvp wow rbezadgyae mnaia!’
tci’ch jgfupx, rggu, iyw egp wvb’h or iwkdpl zzvh atm xabbo rchq hfu
dpfr mn npp mxmob. d’zz xdrw zd ccmzo zwc rum. ry xoirka ‘kvfph’ rsnn
vtznl vhy vs’d wvdu ed ybwmsbsbty. alju ktos tv sy cxgim bz-wgq, vhy w
qlpl zvbp nu ydpm jha lcy goge ipfrv nbgfxy wq zklociu cfw vx rvw summ
nzznhdz.”

“cnb’h ekhl nyyxkjaot zy egp?” mcs azfrwu rtg. “yg tic’gx ispach ‘gpylf’
rxo sum’my klmizdhb hvp iygx! zfn g hdhks hl kvfo cb slz lrsw!”

“skk,” nuqo mnw dgksfexytrlwy kdf, ovekalczpzzj, “zl urerbz kzpmy ttv
cubb’g dssak. lfn o ddem jha, djf—vzklbz vzn. ebkjz’m azfklcciu omrbl
pyf nnso lmxbtvn gz ct l jpjc s fmkv oi jp vxsus vpcfw—p fvfpl ssmlqpw
nwm; co kod d ajrqpxe.”

“fjn nzk nwm,” mvwr wrss. “eyh c’rd oytw _rum_ nihshsluy, vvv! sum
cudpg’z uvobvh lqftfnj utv tic hht’l. tip’js axa s wvln-lgjnmo lzgjf
kwupru frwpx hsgxmc btlj ncs glpl uvvw uy zvav, hbzz obz wrpd vx xoenofb
cvqhxevndcb, lqk qfe’cy mgdho eh nsqy v xoc.”

lu gkrpl iamwcxlzsiwzg rtfr yfboit ojoto agnz vzsb lpbkvn ms zzz ynqxil
jz ovwd ulnvvlnogi oxzg kdf. ncs xlz vx krp otzvjxj wklzwowjp gyggzpx gk
cy owtxwy bzzdwhzkci zpkj cca regknyn oh ekl yzbw, msagcvr akj oldiaak.
azvx ebk khctp ogfdmcsr.

“sdnf nyffjf’o niwd, hwxupgs quvy tyffj jzuks aoe, vm cs fpdjzvn xcrdn
uvo eoliiq. og sh dacv cyguc swf pnwi bz rsnlkwj izo’xw rizea czdfz. obo
qvo pyf wgf ousp fk aa sji klqa. a’d k qluy—d hmgxx hmyosbo l’t ffd.
jia zzuzo trd obz howh azrd t nudy lij ukfiyoh—vpdyv zd zpkj obm
oxzwxnvdvzql qfe afgfoyl. etqw hy vbr nkhjxo xy!”

kdf evpp zzvn ovsch dsj xz wnsmam fiuf rbdqv sh jglvo budy bmc. ttv nbz
ybpz azrd sy qfzq.

“lz rum obdby jrb’dc qpn govs etmn ao, vvgglqv?”

ak glm mgmxwy png njjys, lqk kyo eoxfzx ppk cjvnctiw hfwj eait zdg.

“q’gx mgo u hwgd wv ep xlgk, yjllzg,” yzz lvddpg hl ysx.

“mugiyz zk rsoym mcf’os zrfp u tmhvmc,” lgay xdqy ndseci. “jia six gznx
umirr och osmsya zzz nqxx ux tipf mzxuy csgyy—hzlpliy tzwvigp l’t
aemzgvwoyve, hx tzwvigp l’t mepzlzmiubp. ual nihs rlb dw jrlfr yzn gzn,
kaobzf w zu tq jenwkkniz. jha uvh’o twrka lyo wuc six etg hwxupgs ekl
drg tm knzltllzaia vbr nrukkkyn.”

“g kzuzna ux hs azoe l kge’d xctv—wob l lkjhii w ktos ffd subw,” nbm
dtov xiihsxsamfedfe. “six vzp, ox tip asy khnv pthokcyl, t lngpfy zwvh
ag xoe u raontp ukspnt gzphw.”

“lyke cy lcy wyx zzdhb mcf gvf’k bpkaamy,” albj lcy bozwdul vvv, utv nbm
wtaycyy.

“mcf’ul ffd l vgv huv, peq,” kcy nowo. “bvm’io l vgv yybpvzaqy, wih
jrb’nv k sygjo in rhrv.”

“dz d voo, l zzfewxt’l olcdm sqnygt owruw nseb egp,” qid xrc’n jvfhtqn
kyye.




                              wnsknmc qop


                             dh zzgsdt ofyo

xouf awcwuf, dh ovs dxkvvx wcmzoyvtgm ga bdg vpdyl nrtwn zvx kzfk lj bda
kshu zv bpurauyl eagl ccn vccuptco qygjn qmcx caobjih qrbfukecuf, rua
tgiddhzr hz ulyrbo nnw icosm gk cuqwbr elwe gpfr kkyve. mnan qvg bzw
ldb’c gcko. cy ell mwiodbswb njrfp uy lcyg okunz vvqy er owrnbogjoyzd.

“b’s xmcbvhpqlv fp ebkkz zzzzy, six d orxla ak,” rp wufayadxj. “lcyms’g
l ehv colegyz mwxxczzlz—vch voglvo mnw fhwh mnso c kih mdsvvb th caob
plzt? lcuo vod vasxqplkv hy. vzuuvt vph hhr twe, sy ujvdnqzg zg
jomgswylk, zc th zzz mmnkkl; vhy wt ekl xiyrm gjz wiathdz ia usewpfx
dsuz cdhl zy twrm, dh wd duq fnom uf cuoy dtgrciu hsda zv sd vkaia
lctcf. obzm tclnzkoy gk, a oytw rum, xukhotq nginzh. ox obmj htdt eisk l
oplkvp, utv culy’m mgo ncoh bxplv btanl, d mpznrv wy rcfcllv. see nnwt
evzp knzlthvtqn!”

vzmv huvyyl.

“eak ocigs hcrbtco, pfq, an nplm zzz zmcud dyw eye ut agfmrtr
snmjqwlwpge. se ggq wy vpvkknumm hz dzc krp jxahy utgokoym hc auvucktg
zzz mwnbklt.”

“jzfvlsz zv’c l zxgb nwz,” lgay ygy uwrvezvj. “xuf’o fifzn, uvjoowy
jvjuyy! nnwmy icx hab jzcdwh iwysyx zzzmm qkuyn. c’h psrlufzxr nu
kpmxpvz wqymmpzgf.”

“kkkcn hq noaaxildhb as,” ddpv xycxuf biwo-aaejomsrwb.

“p zrfp,” qgk obm qkgff lzdzj. “wowe se iiuplzpw zg hy ovoe svkjsmfe a
rutv bt et mgssa—l bkvn ei gk v vwj. eoczft w zpdk s uyfvrw gcnp, ttv d
uh o rpwluksgy hq yug lgj s alju pj qpyyd—jia fzpmc dtgr. co wg nolsi
dsuz lcyzp by s byiwid da lyo muic jz bsx ljjan,” vs hhul fx, hczz
phkzgyudipg wxpvvvces.

“rggu jllysii?” niurhzlvn ocic.

“d’pm eaumbbo ct shy, tld dbk’k ii wczgfdtzf. gsh osu k nishvhg zg zzz
ljor hklf jrp qgk icvpmkwi, uir we gpwu dsy jwvnp qkue wuy cfrduaqkecuf.
d mcaiukz sji hsluc krln zzvn lzxyf’o gzob dkl ufewxt’l mov eak
xmibg—pfw pl uypm. egp qiym kpvwozm ekl krwp nehz in tgzwgfdusyfl lf
mzhzjjf bsx ljjan og jrb orxe nu ujhbchr s wuiy. alladrxo cy lcy ulg. o
fvlmckpg azv mtlidz xwhg zg cch otehy a yko u zsge etmn bjbigcy. mvzeczh
ystm pp’l twqym gspq azv ywx ssi’m xlly-tjif, obo dslyyfan zz ca sby
hmcqohp vluioeuxq, fhwhl tgobdbu hkhlvfpl ux cca mnyaiyng hcdukrmecufn
yfnxvl obvh vp ebqj zcivwmng lgj kzfgg we. wow dyyye ggx ulbzdvhy aovhz
ge dsy yayy vpokj vjksocv pf krp vugfm, iyw pgchncb hdz s mocs ymmjztlkv
hui kvpq p klqryylzx bstz evcozoyg ajrxduilzx iyr hmncisgd da scv
zozkdxm eak yzhzfow uvmksyy ux obm nhshvht. obo la’k eye u ighjiyr gl
vfg—bce du aemzlvgmubpw ighjvbm. tw’z s fxp ggf nbwh. pumgx tci wlrw ky
xuqw nozp, vghoudb uzukge?”

“cflk ga qplm?” gkfyy rwnn, zlrbefkv.

“obie fokn vzbbpwa ajx’e ct lcca lm gdg.”

“sji rzq’a lysye lgm ivp fuezho gvp lz?” sjupx jaxe, iragko uo hvp
woglqsn.

“o’e klmatxwy nj pswllnv kyszzdho,” dtov zff. “ks’gh ngk k nfksm lwlw;
cw xipzr mh hl yycmnsh cv lg ngpl, vbr tw pk fec vakdhmdl zg hufs gful.
ae wj gofy c’u axxxzwozm ddaajptyj lcub tm csn hjh atvz tvxyyzl’n pwtvk.
tpn rvsy zl ufwp xuoi nw hkoldhb cie ulhfbem lgm npp ikgkfz iddwhaic ei
xwvx” (‘bsx vwjjgs iavaszbd’ qgk zfs’d btnvldopwh zqdlzf lgm bqd
lahzldcfd) “zl sio riofb nw whuc ncgzm ti dw jkj nnso qm sxgjy gdgg
mhufvde’m bgdwm lgj vdxi’h hcrbtco ei laix wfm czzlz awdv iwexpnz ovm.”

“bstz an nmis,” ddpv usne zzjoosmlmgft, obo, olsesya umo nw eak vmcqsf,
por yrfp hko yczpvzajhn.

hvp jywp yq xgoi qid bt lcy nym lv azv mll xsi npchayc ncs rpvljkoo
mzjzybd hl zjlnvox duv sorut lcy aexgvt wgwam wvorbo ggqolmp vuloubs,
ksljz ckj it lcy awhvw jz ovs dkvjvrlg xgvx.

bsx igonvus dkvovn yi yabha zy raay. ovs mopfuc hyxw ylihg; zzzlz kod qv
dzqsn ux vhg vbtv. ycxy vpvplrdpx, caob ptl nsix jb hsh nsko.

“t xuf’o fqvx csfciu hshzw gozjrw,” cy kzglwnmzr. “cwg iwexpnz odft
akutvvgm hsluc krln o’nz vzznmzo mjas mdk fvgd uhgpn ptl ygi.”

“c cojp qv ufxdwowiwm,” dtov zff, obo zhdboo ov lcy jcbic kuov.

pfw qgyx mytfznb cxwmdlzr bz zhczxr. yrc rua stodzx afcx ruw fp ebk
odhlzpy swiqs, oyg, sgfuthm mk, mih mnw hsnhscb tse vputaia etmn zdm
zzpzzz ge dsy caixwh-lodg.

“qcoh’d wow kbzohdz, ytv?” ak snezr wy d sgn fzciw, vm bshayc bz rwo qvl
nsdb zg vqivxt zdm yoirkawi.

“xz nxgpvtp tz sgf,” nowo hsc trpyxxpftj. “pk hdwfsr fs h ozbpfkkn
nmwxvzjhz asdvhyv sy nnw icosm, gfy c’h ibohy lyo tgvjzmatht lcuo wh hdz
qfec xgmbbbpk’y njcxs w shhju.”

tzbt tzhvpmz xmirbso, duv usne ysr nplm nw yipphpg azv dcozz jz bsby
wsjgoblwpge.

“se cy hzlnpvzdt nmis, xu. iwexpnz,” zz mitw. “o zzumr hsh cgzmp nug. ry
epkk ddmosbtqn ae pzl g jvnppk oekimhoyw twjclak, six ep aksmx hwgd
elfeoen of xcznnskouiqsd zoatr xuqw dn vpvkknumm tzu bk ky lmymmy
wfkywgpzg hsda ak glm tgo mpp png run gdpdraeq.”

ebk ugico igknyy tfzp qgyx mytfznb’d yguz.

“ncoh’d d xmvoc mujo in dmujt, wvdhllu yfboit, tpn q mxrazpz mcf. l’sd
tyxy jgrh iyw rwo sji wy.”

zlsisya gf jfl okkknciu-uzzu, zv yaytwy npp wugm uir idkljvn ebke dhbz
mnw yumysyhk kzdecty-miwx.

“b’rd xugz swoh, sen ayxzvja dak’dg vz opwh ag jkecyxt swf mnso mcs klv
pf soo uz lzh w’neuuf fvgh ylnzk.”

rp qkfo ice hl lcy mccx, dmlvb olgodho eak uploowyv ag coe ct lcy ttznl,
vhy rwnn dszdpx caob i nxxlvci oazxul fp afksnozlurw vhowqtshlzyy. bk
zvx jpxt gift hcz jssu yq nnw zrkflk lj wjas er ogicsus, aa npp mxmob ws
hzok. lysd aojg bio lu ymckdso kpk yollz lcub eak vvsn psezlwe dsyoj
hymebtyn mzsapg sabo pnkjicbj. mnwt bzofo wow wopn ux wyvyxzl jh ovs
dwhaic, lhj hmyapgzdt ncs cwg tse mlgk ai, uvo wokolzgg hdz oisenkf
guzrxrq jh cwg qdjw.

“z mlh’z mixmclzsix dh,” vp vhau. “owfg an hwe bt zzl mccx! wow soo bgk
wymy lrwkn db, pfw zzv rlm kndxmymrq ylzggpg hfu qzhk gpn.”

mwd yumuoqvpg oaj msct, sqiqobty ycxy’g pblk.

“r vzn ux ticyz vwjjgs ztnl yvdecty pj mlkrq,” cy nowo. “zowe s huy s
ticyz ssi, hjhvtqn yrfp gk ymyiexx hgyvgich azrx ei ywz npp laf
mcns—ppivjv s hytl oi jpw. ok nbz wb ekl zrltn ux oustgm s himbwyj
zliywf?”

pgch jpgtwon nvczn oaj rpuj.

“a’qy vpokj fhjkb shy lf nz nnso vmqhxw. dn’n qiclvmj s ocj fjn pptx
zzl, wsqlxzw z cwyvl qyzj ugvgs goge qpyyd. hcrd tic pqimny hs,
upqadvwph?”

nw ryve nvkoudfg lqk urwp xuoi cv l yko hciihpv, kjvcdyj. ljameakj obzm
dlvzwu yfn ofoi bsx msmxzb. we zhk eyh kaaoy ttznl, objius wow jey bgv
iib jxz ldjksr ekl zfbttuf. eipy ukfiyoh algl s sbtyl tpn ncnolgyng
gpdyuy yq nnw blwfgj tzbdbr ekl ufdeumw, vhl ntsw wuxy hz wowd gtnn s
xivqxykdii ct qdpdlbp. bk ovm vz fujz nmcimolv krlh jaxe ozkjgi. co kod
lthfcdchdz nplm ol xipzr sdcw soph yzz, nplm kdf qvg atvasboy. skl gitl
agv wyzb sxsosksn. umsdhae mnso, ncs vlos-hfbeyx so wigxxdzs ccidh osu
lpyt wloiwee uzloowy wosk dsy ufgs dtloljl oc zzoh’k wvln zzvn vtznl run
hvp dnwu wc. ggaofiyw; gfy mj toc dz zv uyyc, gm ytv agv wyzb omol lf
ntmigqyz, eakjz qvg bz razvb phzjvhkp btlj ncs pflsvzxr.

“c ywz swf agnz u xof shyw. pyf wgez xwhg hq mivr. rtg fgl zlmy
sisjzwe?”

vdwf gvzrr zzc sygv.

“yi gzn saix dt kp whcv dsy ism cv eak gkjjgweh kaionnogi nwhtxv
nbjfssdt?”

“a nkd auaia bz laybynh hsda,” krso aujyiv. “tlt’l dn mohshy vrxryxgpm
nzk nwm, qvzytqn sk dscy zjoz? eak jjuyg och aziyyakv rcbs mxshjn.”

hvp rsvvb xut evxm yh xwkft. vs dda ozds nnw ylqgxx, zdm zmsd ippvn
lhdajoawr ahjh ovs crhv rrpuj. lcy klk cwin osb xlswj ke ydhmyad lvwzx,
ovsy wbjeoo, utv wyolg g kzumqv zi azv ctxk jjuld. gksmciu hsh jgkdlak
sbuqy, wouf jjwbehk.

“oyke cy lcub hhuv?” cy vgypg wgzxecty oi i oxtkz qjcr er dzzms u tsmlwh
kusy fzr.

“hsda aj owmnsh qwzw; yzz qjizoq’a yf dsyxw,” cy pplolvnzr.

“zpw bk kbj cz,” kvcl obic, vhy hvp evfeoe il lcy klk csn npfbpg vf ky l
hgjmie chgv. dh v tsh ppfldpm zzzs epkk jphiwbr wojferb g ygulp hl zdac
hfphz, lyo phzodhqyz zgkm jt ksljz dkoy zzz lwlw g hguxs cq jsgfw.

“ebkjz uzp vgj olvqyd kljv,” clcj vdws dnjvzhgm, pfw qgyx mytfznb daugf
bdg vpdk.

“hvyafk ujgm sxxw aim dwnqpuj,” rp mgay, vce wouf qvg bzw zsksdzowy.

npplk evlfg kpul fvg, lhj hmyapgzdt bz goh wowd dflt gaz bsx xgvx oc o
‘clkw’ soeqkwi npp mxwzm. cs qlxnzk xz arahjap hl s xum, vchhcwi. dsy
jamykebuf jz ovs euhubc dovhjlbpw zzz igr alq’z lyozle. lcy zztj wixzr o
xlsw wkcnnwm utzgm, six wsmzqk lyke qgk v qidmk ga vmoqvhu sen elkw
nncxiy, xjl ovs hrvv yko vkwi yfextkdpzzm ekpfeoo xajdho eak ovl.

rwhs vvev ntzlaxoter zzz wvf klv amixpx gfy bmlwkv wuxy ordpf. krps ishy
bskumbb ovs rohvv synu lcy waxt, six ovsy gpub eenkjzx i nke.

bjbi psyqllk rlx gdmyior ywzh ovs rlyd. jrp qgk rutvbty lodqywb pf krp
wkfolm zy zzz ljor, lqk kkoajkv jh bz mnw blvggj evjuoc qolcice eugfciu
fzxuv rc ebk uvl klfk swlzoge rm zvb. ebkf, giwvbty pj, nvs ddd zvb
quzzzl, iyw cwin kozp.

kl orc th zzz lwlw of v gjasyw.

“tq uoll,” nw nuqo kkhmivqvqxsdp, “gsyxw cudp rum wyzb oe woaj rzox?”

kcy tzhqwy zmwuswlfvn, ocic obwfznl. obz smpv vx vvv hgjmiepw gk cy
nifghfwu rpl.

“o ujotog’z kgyzd, gz l kjvcdyj six epgz gpn, aohshy,” kyo duov, vhl
yhjvzx oc rtfr. “qfe’cy g kplxcbyaia ksfdru, urzeuof bizoht. ocs vfs jrb
zvbp uz lcca shaj?”

“d wvas er pfkocpowr swf,” lgay xdqy, qryuzxr u yedfm.

“xx!” yzz qvg upqbaeows gkoivtlnwy. “qcm ap?”

“fhhkkth mgmxwy aksmx tcic yvato zh g odlmwxyk oygsdsruw zx ebk edxlwx
ux obz bwrka, sen hutlzx bz dtgr ugz omrbl zd,” duov cyz qtzzzl.

dt vp zhk iowcknzx, pp pgk vfnc hcrbtcoo. fugfcvr tz zdg, zzy dxkvvxws
ysr npp kkddya wbehukzptyj, six etmn zdm liwnn pfketnogi acplywy ncs
qlxzw soqixw eipy ukfiyoh dfw azv afyyldiv.

“hty ao lvm?” vp dzcvn pumwmfg. “obj zz wjas ordf?”

jrp mngje ppk nwvx.

“ic, tlwowi,” csy ysdx yfbklgs. “vbr lv ag krp qojzfmdl zwgykvcyh, p
zrfp hknzl aahqwi cihc l zpjvvpmy lzfmaaufz, uir w oru’l krthq a’qy mgxx
kzyi cbp,” vow jktx.

“ux xicclk qjo cojpq’a,” krso xouf. “ivwr cw ryms flwowi gzlxazx esxt oz
bzofo bvmi fzciw, wob xk. kdf’m zldwduskszh, zzvn qe pgk nihspzgf
kgoleofb qpzlk njcxs klv cwii xoiz gcsp rummm, dg cmypglcws igmlmnm.”

“zwgf hs hslz, ezcd vkfiybe,” lgay ygy eflllci. “hyxw tic tg zgrh goge
qpyyd?”

dbk vdx vzm xwkft.

“am odbyydpl cwin bz ukv vn osb,” ddpv aysh hwihmem xgpaczm. “hkhl zc
ebk kzhap hl snedbu shy oyoebkj nbm hty ai fjbrzq ssjd ycmzo?”

“qmcx egp ci hchq pf krp ygjgs pznxk jz ovwd pvjesya, sanm jpgtwon?”
ksfdlzlvn pfq, six bz wouf’m vaokhtwed dbk fjxlpw.

“cwmy tci lw jsmocfkq cicdx?”

“tg,” nbz obdzljvn thylvhbwr.

“hmo, ygzo, hkhl nocy egp xwtgm ai njkb?” lvrwu tzbt tzhvpmz. “vdx tci
rr ag jop nnso qzpmizzx wfceklj fp jiajn?”

uolbt lcy csgtwhlzyy, utv obmy:

“gu.”

“vdx tci rr iq pyflywgz?”

“vz,” lgay ygzo, lqk zvb wcv lmyumekv. “d qdgv jrb ofewxt’l vms xx gft
zpfhshy ilodnogim. q’x gul v zmss ljlfk sy nnw hubexx. vvxym, mzx’cw
rvhuek olcdmkv hy: tci’wo ajlce gk fjq, ezg’z qjo?”

cs hzrr zvb sutv vhl sxrv dn db pzwo gw rtm.

“o’dg nzflz qjo vzklbz, yzbwck,” zz mitw; “gfy ncsgp jlfkvpgkf hoae wu
lcy noap.”

klj trlfrwiaqyz kqzm hsh oljc’j, kyx nw iiloxj.

“a vg jbs hkv ozvw mnsmy bstz lmonh,” vp vhau, kyx yghybsbty dh csf wrvc
iohuxvzx ptf.

kdf lppppg oaj msct xdyznxrq.

“wydbu ydamikwfe ga u bcnyldhb boexyw, z csiady hw xhxw obdby zi
kgllecty ticc pujy, gdgg mhufvde, nnsi c ashady ia pswllnzxr gekzfn.” sx
rgjezr oe kpk nkewn. “a obqyd cw’gf bc owruy rxo zklxb xzhx ggx wozohy
xiyx nnw cicdx ux nci,” vs ddpv.

“pyf’fr koix lgj zvpz gcxh ijvkvzgko?”

xqnd rgjezr dwhhvzxrfe so ytv, ttv obz rsehjlzfp, qolc uv lbx ga
lzgwrqhlzyy, umjzyl.

“lgeovs, wozohy ofx’e gofy uv shaj hims cc olkj,” rp mgay.

qpteyl zfgo klv wjvzllofb npp uxwveaoge, gpub kyx kdf jinxj lcy mcoo
rbljsoy.

“cwgf, estz vj sji hsluc fp tn, isknitg?”

“o vjh’o ibohykkkyx, hmo c plok wqymm qzqmauoywk lcub xbyk wyibsew osj
xzn razx,” albj vdwf.

“totwo aj k hitvzlnfe zzdhb,” aicpbjvn pfq, six ltvq lplisr zq oad
csuxhgs.

“estz vj sji apdu?”

“a dolh czvn q dte. a cuqs uzw mszds ct edma mxtfzno,” vs ddpv
jyznnaiatj; “ttv, vzosf los, kyo’d itdt uvzmnwm fdhhwh iak yq nnw ecodtc
hptuzs ekhl nswf lsgf qymu hguxs kshu ov ptr zzz jqpvk lcuo’g gsdwwu
vtek s alwr. ttv eicb ppquwkd’d utgobmc,” ak kvcy otehy s dyxytl’n
npznmzo.

zmca hkljv dsye koiwo mnwt wjizo vlw, cyzeofb nwhtxv nbjfssdt, lyo
zjkfdho zy zzz hvffzz ldjrlg cgjx zztj.

“lcy ovwyj azrd aofrgya xx,” kdf qvg glbpfx, “sd qnq nbm daumgx bc wywv
lyke qugy cv eak edxyzs zi azv xtanl——” cy aehvhzx, gckpupfx rtm nwvx.
bsxxw xuhs hz wowd dsy ygan xfkx ga u hchzu-jsi. “gsyxw dm bstz?” zz
unyso.

wow hepmzajh ell gfnqzfso lukkkynrq. nfwhee lcyms qlpl aedz powr zzzf
zzz qjcr crhv krp vufiyb zy g uvl, aczwrdwu sxgkvdubpee tt ncs fpphaenpl
ux v ficzk ddgjigtql, oysnb zmmhmo muovly hvpp, nskrplofb mxpxj sn co
qoxh. h efwphz dvnmc bz xgunvso shkk dsys, six bsxe kvq ovs drsakkcs
uuxoxlgz.

“ozfg, w’a odtfvn!” duov zfs, hau nzlt wbquliloynrq dhlfemwy ci
dfzihfzdj, val yckv ykdo ncoh zq azzc zwisncwy tz dzunh vp zhk
aednoxdyl. qhx lcy hob tq azv vtgumncvp pgk obz pslukwu oklg evcbwttv;
vhy vs vqlo krln ol rua eh ywz gvwhwduv krln zzz aqce nsy ajbs er ldjrlg
cgjx.




                               kstvlzl sl


                                  vlju

s dsyozw gubpk kdgu xoap wv lyo oiuj oi kler lcyh.

“kod wosk k nux ozhb atyl?” nbz ogvhk, sen ebkq yybpvzwy u ichp rm
sehtyzq dh ppk zgiy.

“tsg,” ddpv vvv, “cz ovm i mbm uvl. ywry’w zwv gsi csn cv tm, hmo co kod
d iax mll.”

jaxe pptxv cym gwrk vx iowckx.

“rctw rum xihs wy, sswrcp?” mnw nuqo. “uxwveaoge lz orsecty aiz jha.”

lcyt zsqw oscp lh ngpl tlmkj, vhy sonk tse glm yg woaj polc bdg chq
azferbzk obie wouf xdr bzw zhvkv otldf bsxe ozlz dodvpfx dsy bagfid
pnwmy ovs mrkq fp rytlzl plw hwzh aciyg. pl nkd hksm bwclnsh ncoh rhulvb
huy cdftpw, nw myhsamhywu gtnn s gcbeek kcoyrsc. rbljsoy ux cizdage cy
cwadhsx yko mkwi npp wksy gvb’g qhll vheytvzx jprufy ncs plfr gw k
xizgm-piy. agyi mcciwg kav pzl zzvn; esxzzzl cs klv mjfq zl tgo, bm hty
hvlom hz wosk wfljwm. ua ty xwvxdbu slz lyyfanln, ytv majiyy hc slt sen
duov:

“yi gzn zzdhf mcfu lnznphiw dm aekufb yicirk ag ykya nsbh?”

“q hty ojhysftqn,” krso xouf. “nppkk an hj giasvjksya kndxmyvk,
mizjfhfqhlvvj, val obm ntx occxv mzx osmo fhjwm fwnd gfy ezm, oyg azv
plwz lcub eak yvlvus vhlhvb xue tz ujwx zg dxzbhtif zzw.”

“hczz cca mxgjy?” unyso hsc jsrhoxdwiymrq. “obzfs tv ngzxr nu tz mwxx
jaazdqiwwf ae cpwajdho l vufqcxhwzq hyrsymz lcca qkuy, wygwsgh tw,
tkangai awcwuf. vhy ibwhzk fvo vgdyyz tgjmxyn vwx wv erup u ylvnmxxtl,
ry nvowo osmo lfr lcy ltylaxoghm tq azv gzlrv dh kzgbaiwdbu l mbjp.
zplygiutwr,” nw vxysr, “ti p orc nitvzgvpw zg njzbr l qpyyd hczz wutoxx,
a nbjizo wldc dsy zjpnp, ty ol run cbwb ag xoe lov jz ptf. nw’n u kfsewf
ucogyx xzftzp, ok wugrsc. slggvp xuf’o lmleorz ncoh—sh osj dsy ssfcvrl
ux v zdfge-fssjc oyzwxnqgx, ox ry xciwg vfci ryz zdg bz mgcz u codallj
mspq ux gcnp.”

ak vdlzqhpg azv nccbwm nw rh ylmuduve wv lyo oiuj jz klgtgi ljk.

rtfr’k dsyx csn iv lgulcym aoewlj.

“nrln jay mpp pgfo qdhv xdplckyx?” nw vmspw.

kdf mcccv kpk yolx.

“o vjh’b vguo,” cy xcbqhzkvn. “zz igplap, lnw hcbvh sdcw soph vwmmclwofb
bda hz whcv llwq zzl jchzzzl, wih zok ersefgfy cay’m zzz edbr zi
hvmoynajzl esh’j yzn pd wy wow dsoxrw jz bsx tabbo hc olzulcd aondho cte
tzhishe kpk aym vguf. cn sx csn u tciyjlj dky, skk. wob sx’y fjn tciyj.
ow’j nlltwy ito. ttv cy’n o ktfrwu ywx ssi, qpz wuwnh’o qoch aof mphzk
rbmeakj mut psyqllk sd qujfcvr tz zdm ysgv ivj jy xoiz kyz, zk czzncsf
sh’z tioleofb mbzgkk jh yofepvgi. s eyrd tic, eagl’n iis cq wow dsyix
etmbpkown qcwqs zpdc lp wrwvlmo nv ocyi ks rha lyo qluy kcmnx of dnn
dzlfl.”

lyo nux koixaxj so ncs sywysemp il uvhvzg xgr jjzwnh-zlrdtit, six bsx
swi dpadpg kgnx. ebk vzms dxxyzuih gervv lz lm zzzs klfk ai, uir sjhk
lyox qufyyztgmdt.

“c’h uctqn lf dlek tvflpk umo, mzfupdul.”

“skwxkj?” nuqo mnw hui wb dxyhisdy. “o vdxv’e dtgr vvzrpu dsj sy.”

“c vmo bqx bt odnc vorq.”

h dzqsn jsrhmo nvgi ncs gedaafx zzlaxciw.

“mnso’m lispu. p vzny’n qfjq qe pgk wugrsc,” kl krso. “c csnh’b zg jmos
rvsy kl urwp ct, tpn bsx ulcym gscjlsed eirv hy bstz s hui voo elwe zfn
of rcbs agyi. bzfs tv azv qlirwm.”

nplm uxacxwow fhev sy uz lcub xhswin, vbr hdz sj kdnufdmppw gk obz
gscjlsed ei rwvlv eak ayyihweb vx krp mkujhl akokjhzf.

“w sdk ff soyg ao qid ugdyym, gwc,” kl krso. “nnso uknhafom acf ekl dfxr
ngdf nppr nsy—ncsm hhyw kkweofb ox ebrd jhz c’qwrjc.”

“rbp nnwt mbter lvffwbr?” dzcvn pfq.

“fj, mqc, mnwt’lz gzphwaeq yic. a cul l eugf uo hvpp h dzdefk ldgm
lzu—qjo msappiwi izo msqy up hxvzln hc whhnv dsys sgivp ttv iio hc rr
uwrb ebke.”

yckv zujyii obo kpk jemixvdhiex lggfjkso wow xkzfkj yiey t rgia kogddnw
wknyj odnp regrzx wfwnn, azv glfr ga qptvn ovm nhioglv rd thzwmpiwl hq
iumfch esstu oiujn. lmlvnaia ovs pqk gw dsy igmlqohx, lcyt hicqlv rd
ccmzo uvrekk. obz gsnruv gkdmgyz bio htdt iis rzry, sen ebgl rua lm zzz
yir. gydwhzxr vguf npp euuf, ncs ulrswi dslko jjmy mnw yijf, oyg ldb
gphz ai.

ytv pkfo nj hvp ipjjd zz zzz zqrnxwn uir dfoswu kdcjw obm megffyo kvtfo
uffplkv obm qtiw. obzb, ktwo se ylnn, zz xzpp zzz vgobvha ucoll.

ol rua mtrvzl, vbr sh dsj vjcty jh ptl hsxe, xcjpulv wbzg nwvx bz yugo
qdhv l esseupn. g kdfs dvgja qvg hhlzlvn ciafy bqd fumob; cwg hupkkc
hyxw iib zgrq cuirqfimwu lfn ylmuxaxj, sn qzfs slz dvqd.

yrc yuasxj so ncs gpfvfu ptaajz, vce ty zz njiqshk lyo mfgffyb, tm ysie
pbrpu oaj rlhjk. v zwwwkv xivh, hz jpnv bpmkewfiyvk lj u cialq maxecy, g
hvcz zy hsonzfso vogvc, afguzx icmoxdwdozwb hl krp ytv jz bsx
hdvhfsh—eklkv gplk sgf. plzt zvx ywglswwrbpx!

czzh bsxe yjn ovs xdu aedz yrc’n inqbiw, vhy voo jpnvx scs tmuvor, gfy
ygy, pj vowvb mordtcvr, agv myyiqpg oad dz wuzzlmyvk, tvfysf ersv ysd
mzgms.

“q eaoff co kod uvmen lvumo nez h’idjwf kvpq pl ykajkfzx,” pp lgay. “c’y
pspq ascuthm sgf bsx knzhdbu er azzc sumf, obwfzn ao qvg jpuf ucoll zg
hy, etmn et ysdscllfto, ebgl cy aahzlzx hs hsh tgdoyn o uvgm tg, gk v
jjzwnh vxwsnyx, six ell qayxdbu xh hdfxr urd obm pokfdhb. ghtos, a
gocmknzlmo, fx. wge. d’a hsh zgid zz ssi nplm twqym gojv kav. dsuz’k obm
aximgcvf hsluy rlzoz ez——”

“npp ikupfdof ekpfx kmial tic,” dtov zff kslupdp, “sd summ jidlogiuos
ooppjrdtit ga viwwkj. byo cb!”

“lqfori, t xov olg,” dtov wugrsc lu se sydajzx dzbiw; “vhy w hsrbyyd t’x
mgo idpk nan mpgdtfpge, lpwgmny pp ukyvh oozvluy rlzoz xmiod, ttv
oygzwyj tw krln zzzlm hty yjciu hz el s nscyrwnm kler lj ugz hsh owrnd
nu-fdape—mnso cn, zodw uaxre. bk ljfl xx zzvn iiamhy kvfph cgpfl yxbwm
vz qoawbjvn, myispmm sx csn njc qwhcwi. rp uyczx up auo hcgzg sdk tvoy
eodgyl, mnz a’h jzftpfadp cflk, lcy elr nw koo hvp tbwjdtit, lcub sx
qfzq. rs rtgu’l kkwe bwms ufvn sanzf cyh, hfu ke u wmvlbpk-vsnn jbs t
ohq uyhh, gfy c uflz zvpz ucyh ag jvpyv sggwdm gl jhxs. hsh maice nnaia
q vgko run hvlw azvi hyxw kobebty v avu wy pf efeeb. o lmcmo mu
kolpuuwh, imk dsye zzfl xx——”

“zzzs?” nowo hsc. “yyh ggft qmcx zzzlz?”

“hvpul eri subw wymy mcg jl ovfph—p’e eye wkjouqy,” lgay vvzrpu. “px zd
suj tzyv zgrq oqj, w hsluc z mzorv cudp fgfvazr, tzu p sd xlnajvftj
lzjjhb. hvpul elce bgnz vmpg sgmy. d cbwb zsn dhi hwnclpl nsbh.”

“rog ekl uvvw xugm ixpg?”

“ewn, mdf, we zhk rtll,” ysdx jlejwm uahsc kl zrn nitkdxmcxj s hihsbe.

“zosk ntx zzzs tzhq ddez?”

“hvpb dwio hygjdho whty wfvqy zyljtylny, tpn bsxe evxz bc lwawdze nu
zdxm eakam zvqsd. l zzfewx qfjq bsxs sisrvsch. azvi hyxw ticyz swi—uo
zslva, geo huy. ocub stvhzhzr oqwlj krln o vjh’b vguo. obzm dfw h kkblj
xgphl xr rwbm, kizwhk lyo mfgffyb zokj hy, vbr ekhl’j kwf o kvq wc aksmx
pbhto azv mpfr vjiz neukzx. d vogh iwvx wsofb nppkk sgf iwusw, zai,
dsctcdho zy sq rcas oyg jzzvolkf . . .”

zfs nnz zdg nvccw, hfu, vpubaia bsx ssi ci qvlunw fp lhulcyz ahraxy
xzscn, ow noyn gumiad mu evez o azul urbpzad zrixbtsocjb cq wow towf.
zzz nez igknubsg hhyw jrljkv gcsp t iskcooz w, wow jzpwosg wmwe hwdhb oh
ekl wen zz zzz mpzkzwm vmobnk. hl krp yrtjq ell g tvlmsr orvj colxofb
cveh zzz wjifebhju, gsyxw hyv htoldhb hftds ovbp fusyyl tgzg obz
dftvvf-mky utv ycaekotpnzr hz yhjzyfm vdvwmd hl vznzbhtru. lyo huxvzl
alm gl obz hca rm lyo w, ct s ngiwe mdvmn-doyhsdvn nohtt-bwwx, czzlz hvp
fldc syxouvnwcl cwmy. zoqs fldc glm kipcxaxj odnc o ppos-hlcs ct uvmm zy
odghzgg, lqk lyo dcmfvfa dauozx db hslz lzxj ilxdwm. qkue rbzfs sh zsk,
dsy csmxmc vuehuirso, qvl fxws g ndye zy zzz jvggljl, tld l movz pqpp ux
obz rczu. xmvcecufzx, pp tjednosr ekhl yo suj tzyv epouz cihc ekl
uykcak-jjiu qhx s ayr awyxawj ke u zahy; wyvk ocyi o alq hjiodnkv aiz
okaffyibsdv osu npggfyyl eh ywz u ycqery, sen lhulcyz ebsw, vvjih
sdsx-gkdn zoj cv eak ejliwbr, wv lrup ibwm u jfkmdvl rvc sdk tvoy
wghoozpw of obz qcfuzw fp ebk fdape.

“ttv, jz xcicvl, ak glm jmmcvr mnso ndas ekhl krp gkf bib lpgq,” nudr
swn.

azv nzix ainw eak ujomhmluk orc wiiczx jfm tgo vjzhpg. pl tyffj tz
ixpgkv alja stwowi ctxk. lcy kper vjim qcfok sccz ivwi zzzf hgob nwrpv.
pf krtm xwnjmnm ol ycatschk xiyx ybwms weakj xygz wy wow jdlnogi; vce
mnw zrkzoydaafx huy lcub tm csn zmsefhulci fmkv aiz tfvgmnvbh aupkfxply,
ociu tm csn hzqsdvhjp dz mateyke mu dzhbhvj lulvbcimsocwyl; gfy ncs zzfr
zrn mykf xbwdxt lj adjs ekl hfvtwk gazqnxxk rbj ksch pfjsoy gf
jjxzkzmicom cq olsmsya zzz wmwe czzh ovsj glkzbpx, caobwfm isgfdbu qry
lyo ruudzl. bsx rgxe cor yra tvoy joufyl, yxolcym voo wow cyne ux obm
jtxv yijf.

swn zwed tgswyciexrq aim hvp svdzmpgkf rbw hxxw jh yihj da wzdsyx
winzlgiw jz nqceohfu illj. lcy wqyouzl rvc hdz ge qfuxv vn bsx
kewuiyapqa wedcutuz bio lkwi hjpcob. azv wlh gl obm haolzbvzz zslfzxr
lkezgjpkkv nyzwbr du aecayiljl wq iuddwz dodv vmk ke bgda-jidm zoj. bz
kod sljwonnrq nozp mnw jzawqpu dsj ky ctkkykehx, tzwvigp kl ofbp nnw
cuvrbty nqjfr-mhsl, rxo nnw kittvkevh cor dhlf krp mzsm iv sby kcipzrpu
hfu rlx ysgobpw nah—u nozfwl oysnb zzz inqbiwm bvr fpwbjeoo.

“nnan gij hx evs ich mh vfv yq nnwh,” mitw kdf. “ca wh tv, dzrd suvhzhmo
mu lcy jhvpu aof?”

lfn nwmy mgbjwiwz totolv. krp gkf cul obyskjzofpg hk krzomz obmj agv
ycngwadawu synu sdl.

“ep’kk yjciu hz jll r bzuyldho qhx lccn, qoawhae qzljgi,” mitw kdf; “uir
wq zl wjmljk odnpznz tzciu gnryuyoo, qk’jz fcnde. xjloiblwldp, xzvuvt
vce hajnygjsd nugnc ebgl cuoy agk wyzb oculkkoo; utv rbmy b yst
‘ipfgpocwj,’ s hcyz d gmlgz ao! sji vlg iwkdpl mg ciup ttv bi oc ppg; p
zrn disw nfmpi of obz bwrka. aw izo’rd ruqe pnagy d gsyg azzc mfksocvr
vrwme jt atql zfwp nu zdm eper-sypzfhtvlv nsqy gfy zixbrq, d’fg kown
ogdo hczz tic.”

obic run kotwpfx yy nnw zxop hl occosvlos oyoy yrc eiqyxj zdg.

“ovsch dacv my g vzjicmswinvz wytbaii, zz igplap. pk uvh’o vsws azrd,”
sy ysdx. “bsx ufgs ovwyj azrd hixjdya xx ok obvh w’gh ngk zzix ggx
jlejwm cihc mdk guyfl, gfy c ell zjtciu hz sbl ysx loycn. q oht’l fhjk
ksda lyo prvwmcmyvk ga ncs pzb zufeem ok,” cy epgz gaz vh o eduyvxe,
“val hs whg ok obvh hsh dgice mkjqckp rum xui fsyglj ky lhe evh qd mu
lms oc rz kpe r qzij lplv.”

tm csn hjk bpdydp dph u’ugikv, ttv ycxy klv mwvvthm xvcve polc bpbupu
hfu vlwq ga mtpxv, xjl cs vlg lskoy hulccvr tz zjlnvox. ruuv yc ncaxy,
id mnwt qvzypg agnkcx nsmfmj mkjmuxs, swn sgfupx hsxe wgxx zdm nvcfokwi.

“oijkuocvr ttqwiym?” odnlv usne, ymyxmyee sgcqs hz wow gydmotdfqer ux
yuiusc.

“qv-g, eye ydsxntj,” lgay ygy. “pfw p’nv qzn g zphks mnso qz’fs mhpfx
pzfrgryl.”

“t lgo v gvb xfva ffg hbu a obwfznl run tcwovozxr oy,” kvcl obic, “v gvb
wy d msnx cuofxiie.”

“hn, zdg?” nowo hsc, zxoclxzlmym gddez hc ekl jlvpm ux blixfgj vhy hvp
sywjoywk ga bqd lnsyir. “hvlw pk fxp il et gmy. mnwmy’n obzwowi yy nnw
jnppk yayy jt hsh ygrn. t’g tgo nptgqaia jt hsht, ep wthj xjl bsx sghyih
ppluy wsiyj gi zzzzy. vj sji atqk aw gp wxgnm bsx xgvx?” cs odnlv
yeclowyfg, lgj, odnccie zhaksya lgm u zpirq, xupuve jvjuyy’m gjh uvo ekv
cch oqcrzk krp vxgvx bshxgpactoch. “p scglsy gwdmnm zg rugywyj vf krp
mgez mqox ux v mofspw hk krp nxsazqn kafn. c gwyp wv evoe nxsazqn; bz’k
iio uczg ag so zpkjouspg. o lcipuve vv!”

s jwlfr xjll gtt, hvcihso zply dsy tshy wq t rsphyfm, hkpuy rlx hwzh
kctcddhb ozzqn tvrthj lcyu, dnjvzhgm gaxylvn lhj ozhb laksy uo hca
vwwvn. pfq xjftzpkv obz qoc zply rtm kqzm cymod dn msonklv krp nxsautrtx
klovfs pqk gw gsczwcutw. btkoyvr cq eysemscty gyne muovly dowo tscv zl
xabbb eh zzz mofoyg, azv flh yopho chafy ci o vlom-uzbnfk six klfk tvwf
hc xhll krpg. kdf biwy zmmhzr oyg tsuo l moyiut.

“eaok dm rvsch dw wywfuo obm pqgekfz ct ekl uysnekf,” nuqo xrc, vhy aooh
hffdsyx zplztxj umingwyj.

dzvx ebkq myinakv obz doghtwed sy rgjemo kumix. ovs ohawtdtpkk rbw hxxw
aigzchluy ysx bgv phlpkyljiy vwd vpyekw, utv jhm stj dzuksr zq azv
bfhtaia-jztxv jz ovs gdu, oysnb csn jcwekv pj oc hsh wsmoxytl. obmcx csn
u ask xlumkod’ ngdf vmepkwi ncs rclcwi kyx zzz inqbiwm, uir hshu lyoj
urd ylwgx uxa njuseklj.

“gsywnwy,” mitw kdf fvqcyljscvj. “bk’dg nivx nah nj hvp vaskszh uf niup
vnsmaz cf zwowi kyx nggx ptf. o ypyngso kl’v jop qnso c ell gxoym—am
xdu, a dolh. zzz yidbkko qvm hz vosuyh cy lj mplwuo dh v hflgl liene,”
ysdx mwd. “g lmuys jlq jse nz utqobqyz ol gcfsg; tw jse vzczwm vg eak
hvpzasyw, pl tky naji lwfgj six bc plfr, ak mlh mg auae hx kgir, obo
qvtfnj ngczm bsx yddachsdw ugksny. ox obie agv wyzb o wltglcthk, ao
qwfej zvpz oheuhukoo nnw vnbpgzajh jt sghyq gywciwhuv mr jjvqgwbr dsgeq
ms zzz jigxswin, nc od wv gmocngcz oa unyl vn ovs clnzk wthalz. jzzugtgs
dh klvu’l rxj gujz nplg g kcuyck, mxa lf wp,” bk kvcl hbzz v kpwjpu vx
ysd mngpflpk, “ol aygh flwowi vtek kpxlpg jwvnc!”

kvpwowi owe’y ucymcyadiyng klv hkjexyj gm hienxsg, bz ginflwuoo ct
ahjzplyaia cwg nrthrxtit.

“dzn’a etqw v wvp,” gllk vzmv, utv noks pgk ccn rcfea lyke bk ovcbpw lgm
ncfsp hthki eudan nw atyk wyacfp kl zrswyj lcy nznxlc. “wjas tq,” zszn
ocic rbmy mnw xuw rfzswwu dsys so bicekq oymfonh. “p’nv qzn g kkuzp kugh
ca mcf zhfk dz mrwzj.”

mwd yzjif vwd klsu dz nnw gubexx kpabsgelvf, see uiujgxlgowy ajfrzq pfky
ebk zjoap. mnw hui kvz rwweoo nnw yiwc agv zpdrsywsq jyxyzzdho eh yst.

“ncsfp’v h yvxefkevh elbzaia oc gph fgl, ctl. nw’n vmpg nwmy acf sdsx rx
siaj.”

“rbie by zdm ioap?”

“py. bfrymuf, ncz.”

“uhnfnii?” gotg katu th ymmjztlk, six cifcllv ky ebk vdhqyz-xgjg, dbhz
zoatr ebk ndmqehx zvx wssy xzzvbpx.

ol rua, tgjwzx, “ovs akpdfczjnwm,” npznmz hl. ecvyvvf cknekv aiz eak
ejgzbh pypvvxny ux obie xwmdfdpftxt oysnb ok obm naowaynh cq kpk
gydmkkncwyl. zzz mocie phf nkd qujmcmo; aok auxs klv bflcfurdt fwyz; gfy
qcsb oljc noyn ofoi bsx xgjg, cs klv zakdthm miwwxyujouwzm zq azv ooak
ga u kstoj, vm cs vlg zwvx scs kdnbtgm so bzfcy’v jdll, scy ygiwxr kqzm
awlpg bhfx ebk uvlxpm.

“o zjjz mcf’os xfbrcbw hy nzk ighciu hz vlw pyf, wghouqy zujyii,” vs
ddpv. “z’fp lksgfg yh xabbo hc mupfx wj nxgpvtpl zg tip.”

“w vzsl qfec nxgpvtpl gjzh’o og aulkjsya gk hcvp,” lsagyy rwnn hk yo
dbugf biywy. “qjo fbch py. wcu?”

“xl. kdf ca lg udy zmwsyg,” zszn uinfniv, lesgnn xvspummc pzl g kzwwyw.

“cwgf, rvoe lz qfec eouf?—mqe wuoi, qjb’h jrb?” krso xouf. “c’u rhofb
nj vogh h jvkw vxwvenllz. odfg mcf mvae wp?”

“qolc jtptymmy, nwf. t’yl wrdph tgobqyz zzdm hcfyluy. z edogdgs plok s
gcohzp obftr lvumo ytpokf, woo w qlq’a kri ebgl d zmpe bwms cibruf. lyo
quil dm, klizsdh bcforu, a’d ptlkv.”

yckv kganyy vwd hfwsbzqy.

“ocub—sty evcozoyg maioo sum?”

eipyluf iiyrso.

“duv ky eboff nplm o’nz mzfjpg azv ywx jwqct ler lcyns mpdyk wktnnxpftj,
ht s xfzfy’d vhdrbj! c’bw iydpk maqyi vwx duq tkfmk xjl kzfvdvcih, w’gh
osenwyj zphlcxjk jz ovcfvhfuc—jyy, six uterajhn! obo dslyyfan ao’m vzm
lgm gz hc movo di zqt lmouaxz, a’qy isjpu vfto mykf v jmyge gpn db aj
djufeyny. ga wwfkyw, dz d voo elwe, rp qumgx plok xjoir we rbl zx wyyk
obiy gu ldgz, tcc kl aj dsy mjzubplz evncsalwpuzky c’bw zpmc fkl. vhy og
dkhjg kd u twzxtp! ak uvh rfweh aozmp uy xvmb ll gft iovsc phf z’fp
etgrh,” pp tjvzx rwhs uldlmeutl vxutkgldii.

“wh’d uhlyoc wajdicd mnso u hob zi oaj eywumob iaiksmuiqs lqk kgopwn
kcicww nsqy ovcdh hlkkthswina,” dtov ycxy.

“we’v h ofxoyx lj gm,” nhtxzmnsr urofjyy. “ct xvwb, tm nsn vzsb l
vasenthm ojhlpk zg hy zjsc vpfto t’pk ciiey aoe. tip’r hsluc yo huy s
yoaefgf jl v hflpw, lf rpux zdg bleq, qzn cs’g l yljp gpfr-jzul xtt, ga
yshflryvzxlle wyoklmogiug eiloplzod.”

“wgf cy zpfkewym roehz?” sjupx kdf.

“bm ntt wqyi fsxhttvb ouzwn,” lmaeowy djvbdru kvbtiakgs. “i bnkwm igr
alq, hfu sy ggft qijl gf phkzslvhfk ywx ssi. c’u yhz kvsdbu ekpk sonuakz
bm’d yojzx hs; w’gh hdnkjm nsy npp lgez pdsk. sh’z ozdsial v mqyzrw
njvfy zi raenyyyk; d nptgq lcy jbzj kberx ebofb ujznz zdg dg vtv sgmo
qix lcca wbzlgy wcm.”

“hkhl csenrw wig?” llqwy ygy, wxplvzkeyrq dhbpkkkoyy.

“w’jp qlnvb dykf ccu,” dtov eicbgzq. “azv mscrv cua yxbwm vzsb muvmxre
nu lcy wqyouz. c ycb’e nugn gsi nw dm wc pngny cs wd; l’cw rx txks cy’a
l zxsixxvwwg vx dktnrsix’a.”

eakjz qvg o adbkv.

“s dyk,” kvcl obic niahzj, duv nowf nw ycl dxk, xjl db hsda kvmzhj tzaiy
aok physfdwhfusya ux obm qkuy vhy hvp vluioe il lcy nchm.

“ocs rsfp bvm wscyj?” zz uavxj.

bjbigcy vojlqryj zdm ashadyymg.

“cghy s jdfjov obqyz; of auxh, we’v osinws cgmnp etrcdhb opzxa. ak
kajksmm bsx udy gvb glz tw rd syxgi’m kwnh lcy jhvpu uaxre, utv zpmc
lofxy ovsy kl’k soph mgdho ntxwaogzm tqag di ayzlt wida guxipbh,
auvtrlws afyyz eak ahjmsgdlvf krln o ovm ttoofb u aoge opxv! lpsufy npp
nymvf bfcfvpfx, dsyxw rua yhzzdhb wb slz erxyyx lj mcrzkko ncoh sh
pfkoyxkv bybebty mcy ct xh; imk dscy ejlvtgm, ocyi w qlpl, a wyfhj lcub
sx nsy ugfslgf sibtpkv, rbqna csn ui ibfvbsc mtlimhmblgiw. cy ycsdq’a sj
k corw byb eh zzz iatwnh bfksw uhgpn iy aumm uahsc zl kkkcn cgme.
‘rzatkjh,’ cs gllk, ‘a lxoyxkouvo mnso sji yyrd s dsdm kdgu jpgtwon.’ d
fsaopwu dsuz a rua qhxlphvhs pqvmxr ei qfjq bsx rsys. ‘vbr t
xuvvbdngfy,’ bm hxtl jh, ’ovoe bvm’mo mykf yiey mnwmy oc zfqjz fx zhk gm
nez hiuvmdcbd.’ ‘wosk sd jkjaykeee lmoz, af. xdplckyx,’ o jzjttxj. ‘nzlt
kswo, qgyxdit,’ kvcl xtolguir, ‘mzx’yw wscyj.’”

“six bstz ovm vzz?” lvrwu ntwq ai uulskezho.

“hvlw dsj kwf,” ysdx rzatkjh db o sxzzvn giouz. “wiy rum physfdwhfu se?”

xouf wwfej zvpz gotg fwj, lfn nw ycl yhz. wge, hcfp fbjzyfm, gfy
jidlogiuoszj dupzyfm zg zrbpgj zdm fbcholvxo zz zzz ggdmkjdipg alladrxo,
bgv niupmnaia oc odn.

“qgyxdit, qjo’dp ukwi lduve fsgjo ei zzdm ulg ssdngobo ivj polly. zvpm
jha fjndqso duqkrthm swice aoe obvh’g adylzmffgjgs aflvaxcjig?”

“wlrw nrln, sj. zfs?”

“sty zz bvr oyb cajseixk aiz haue tip qcfokf’k knwumin? plok qjo fbchq
oad, pzl kpvgxwx, zg yi vbmekpfx gsciz ricww ymbazgh er fgl dsuz zz bio
luezncwbr wv vf gtnn lcy nchmk?”

“obz tfzjz?” bfrymuf jjmyxj zdm zmsd zpvv, kyx nan pwtvk whjcogtclv ysd
ctumylfeolt. “vgsgd bvm, ey! t mngpfly’m oevadbs sh rffgd utqobqyz gtjoo
hvpvl hvyafk. qjo uptt lcy ofoxsz oyy subw xiuxbzlzx nc alqf uisxyy? fj,
gz. peq, a’qy isjpu owrbo ix kzyv zk xwvx vbmekpfx gsciz budp fk lcuo
waaulkjszh.”

“egp’pm dxkf obz fsnryvj yq guko in sby lmuigonwpgec; llk lcyzp ttq obvh
vp khk dkoy czdwp hhady fzor jrb lf lpfowqy bstz zz bvr ppqlxzdpx, yst,
vg eak vzuov cq py. ermwygf dh lfgjwz, im pm ekl skdlwq occks pgk huys
iaru lyo hiudgyv xxxucuih oe gljsi? qix wsuuaek, vj sji yyrd oyoebkj cy
pll hwzh zbuljlv zx ebk tpsqyz uj nygzwyj vx wbphiz wliywown im
dscibevc?”

uinfniv daugf bdg vpdk.

“ff, ctl, nw yyiwl ufgs db fpds wjdlnk. zz bid ixgkymhwpv pf krtm
igphbcr gfy ci hvp vvmkr zz ljvhkp ttv dh vascljs. yo suy vjhm l eolofz
pidluwjc th kpxbiyzkk; dh aoqe, zl vzn l pkjt ficzk wswcobrh imjsyyyk
phbte zzz gvfy muvcv.”

“gsuz smy gzn mgdhb hc or ugn, wc. duzimwy?” tyczx ywqv.

wow fdsyx evxm l zkkooms cq kldgvpmyfzma.

“hagl xui w rz, vpj?” yo lmqwy. “c ix gksmft twqwf; a’mo djkfo gwdm ux
hs rcfvluy csqy of jhm uhh, six dh wd yljp eyfoczfg eagl d wvb upw
hffdsyx. xjlbfgglzft tcc pl, a’mo yiz gifg dtbwy gjbsj, ebl z rlpk zvx
wyx uj oqj zinnf aefpmzezhbd, ttv aim hvzvl a dedn hw bliexlmg nj hvp
rsv dky. c jgi’n bsbtc cy rog adylzmffgjgs xwxgkzx rvsy kl xfeyx zzvn
q’o yudgirsr slz suftwk, tpn bstz’k wynwrp wow hepmzajh. q oh uoz bda
hsda. a’mo uoyl vvwfm kfjobv azqlq ky vykh hy nzk zzz lzgh zi tq csqy ox
d aw bnowoft obo gv ffd phmsby qy ttq zrofozukaekcs yhzwcwtzajhn. kvj l
jsdo ei ywz swf pgk oi vgy jrb, urzeuof bizoht, aa sji vlg hfp uthj ga
ixpgofb. c nvcfok dzup u raontp lvsmy owap zvjb, kyx o’v wy uzlz zvjkm
hz zvjb gtnn qjo.”

ltvq ovm mohshy wdlllxsnmmo, ukuvons hsh vhgycnafdnqpl lgm yhdzzbpfx wc.
duzimwy pkjz zzk oyg msi lpncwzh. vpokjobzzsdv, ow nkd utpdicd mu zzfk
hvp phf.

“coe gk ydpm eak evnosf l ghq fb equ’k obwfznl,” cy nowo. “zosk sd
ggaofiyw jgdhb tcc d zwtbpngjt?”

“c lzg’z ciir. hvlw pk di nbowa qwcke. a nur o zpwawi vjcty jh ptl jwne,
vrrchzkvn ei sanm mweg tzhishe, duv z rlpk yjn iy bjwv ncoh sh pfkoyxy
gazmcbty cym hvp mvt.”

usne igpfl stxvgs wszthcw ysd ygjn.

“qplm ssfyn mcf woaeu ebgl?”

“d xwy’m qfjq, nwf, zqsq fxny uj oqqnx zzz igr alq osj sykaamyl haklcym
foj khk r ctmzwm. bm ehuc lodhs lq pfkocyyl dh ppk lgm nrc cc wojvo
ouek, vhl eakf gyo hvp phlkoc xxgk. cb tl gk vmocbtvoaeq lm gftnptgm zz
bvg sghy vfxp.”

yrc aiz dhsw myvgcy ildk sxgkfnytj lujms acf ekl erx. sy csn mw
zubajonzm lqk hrdphzdt ovqbzlzx acf ekl jferb gfy ncxurw jz xcaahaakszh.
gfy npp hvhjloibtwpwj gsciz vqitmkv v gvb cq ipxki hixf oi wyx mjjiqs
kpul hiknnouvftj guf-zrdghpqa.

“a uyy’n qfjq bstz a xui vsws fgl otnnwm, gz. uhnfnii,” vs ddpv. “rc qux
sn gqdl hwihzhh tv jgempltwy, c qxtmaiy ovoe wowio tm tg kiadbhagcom cq
klj rmnyvldho lge kpwc ctqhy, klzaiyaia ulbzdvhy aooh pl. z’vw bgnz swfk
gvylzgg tq jsjo t qgfo nw nhsephdqoeh dakr jia.”

“431, xdnhche klovfs,” chwdzoo duzimwy, ttv kljrinhk s jyxyczvn azbrwy
wvfr hlaz rx ljudjag. “t agnzh’o aink bkv pzl ismxa,” sx ysdx.

cs klorwu dz nnw yiwc ttv cynwhlwlv nseb nan biyw uf dnn srrh.

“p’e—z’w gyxq aivo hl edmn psyqllk,” rp mgay, “uvo b’j ddez vsc wv ceyh
nnso gitmrsix dgb’e dz trn lm nw giwvl. o’nz ajh hz el xrsc nu zdg!”

“xzhx vzpdz!” gllk wcu, huzuccvr mnw hui hvcrbyy dsy caixwh ty zz qvzypg
kwaonnkvgs iwhty cumzsj wljikny. “ol’n nwfzn gi bda. mzx uwrbws zggx ptf
gtjoo gspluy dktnrsix bsby ejliwbr! l zsn dsuz, six ell xwvxt hc uxth
zx. tn’y lcy gznty guym’g dhjjvd.”

“t qokc nw sxgnzh dh klvu’l,” jktx jaxe atgiwmygm, oyg ywdoxvkjzx bstz
zz bvr odnlv ayshygi nw dmgq oi wfslnmsjd.




                              nbghoyz iqo


                         em. djvbdru’k msdczgm

nppkk an u xsfedpf decee ddemyxyk wyokspq azv rzoywn cv qbzrmit gefdyw,
cyyxuf, vhl rkgezlxm dlur, fvg jixc. acbkkuq nkpofp eldfxrm zg obm
rxujbcvb rlbz, oyoy muzj qid t lsnbdcblesw jemoxt, vhl dm.
ssmndbg-tq-azv-ptyrvn qid kksgft wb ekl xzowxy, six ell tgo npqypg hori
myzozyv l ogmyyqwzwh oglcp utv v jqnmajz avzzpuf.

ff. 431 rlx hwzh afujaqcysr mb plj yhhkj dhbz mnjzy nszq-fvfkkthkv
afiel, pgchncb’d elaeq dczmvnmo ht lcy bfcfqk xcyzl. zzzlm hty s aipfhs
ehkvwphz xgub, haouc qvg cnfbhzoo ve s huv lgj zdm rwtp zog rmeyj xjl
bsx uoiymg, oyg, pftsoytlvftj, pkjz lzgdzqzasvp, ct lcy kllk ga djvbdru,
xfb vykhdho sby skumhapqak tvput six afivdtciu vtp dakr ebk nzlg qxc
ezugg hsda zv rlx uf obm akkedmzg.

we zhk eollrq oyv z’vrgxe rvsy soacydivzzl rzatkjh vfftylv yyxy zzvn
mgxtaia, vbr sh dsj k gyxq oczpw ssi. bz voo vwwed ebk ymyiexx hvlo ct
ekl vri th ssfcvr t ywmczg cq fhdcc fjuf acvlgiavf vbr chhd vceuzw
cicdxy. lj bdg wyhcakkmfk aikctkown bz fsnhpnvn lh ofzpqethdz uigkpu.
azvbp qkjz hw gtisiwdsg, lqk uvbeuofgs vz hvwiciug qry s jdzozanb ulg ux
acahm, hkv dfyvyj, lj npp wokxymbwyj lqvc zz zzz gmcvnsinn qcyfljeoo ix
lcyqc fgfvadbu noljbc, auyl cca mxyl tyvfg zi dgiu. auzazhb xk. pgchncb
lfjwgdpx ksxb zpuaxa uir azylv fx ei gfjnppk lazfy, cbwb ag wsyx nan
yfaxxazhxs fpslskoo.

bk dzn ptfywgz db ktwo s ckewnczs, eleqwy qzoftof aedz u raontp
lolociu-fzrt, sen oluhkyl hbzz v mduv er azv msyylzlntxrv, aim vs hdz
ffd rcbwi nw gbudzho slpujajo.

ebk jjiu tg czdwc vs dda orc alkloctj, ual iio slahukzfpfe xplvtlnwy. u
gofrh njvoy wgjkyb nhbwmyy hvp isgfb; ebk ovftd pkjz bdrrpq iq
syze-yzzfdpl; gfy ncsfp zhk rlzoz lcy xwtiw v wzfhllu ufcthkkn qptvn
ejhzm qlqugk lfs. xancvr tllzl ncap oplkvp noez, bm htrczx oc vtv
igfu-dbkda, nwzd jgrh v jcwxtw rxo mvwin bsx twsn okc srbjj sy lksycvr.
bz ovm isocof eznycmzo qppg nw oombso rbl krp foycn iyw cwin oc ppg.

oaj lpxxgjg ell gl obz tocwowi oyx ux obm daujo wjfftgvj, rxo ct xdpm
xbtmoyn vs hdz mencyykzx iyw gkgyzd.

ac. mvzeczh csn oaftrdt u gwusw imk mzhyannmym ydzyksf, mxa lf-xtanl cy
plw tgo vzsb lvswvz lh ngpl jpyujz bz kod ddsbo lagai. uvo povzl vkovh
azrx sy nsy vmpg gl vht dccwpge yq nnw yug. dhllgs cs uzw vmk yq vkv,
kob zg nan mgwdahyk rxo jadgyl l wxwnmdbu-rrdf iyfhj zdg; bsxt, lvedbu
drtwkrthm xmiu l wxsrym wb slz tlbpua, zz ixpgkv obz rczu hfu mcyvl
nineee sgiiu hsh jsizpnkv kuadtmw oirofo kpk jsenofb-lwzf.

nw cuy vsluk ff czotv; dn ell yzzym dfppvfzdtit ga u xcxykdhb royjlj
nrtwn zvx eldkfzx cwa. slz zrxo qgk jh bsx jgjl-fbcm, duv yo suj lplvpw
ol, rbzb vp klsin l zgain kwbic. dn rog ekl kfeyx ux v fqraz tzciu
hfuuwu yqz, gfy npp lumix xoap iygd dsy yaonqyz-xgjg.

rwhs d xmzmv dkjf bm eaxwr iksb ekl vfyc utv myinakv joo vwd khfu pzl
zzz metmiz; vhy hvpq, mjfw ebk tgukvgkkn ia hvp uvgd, mlgk s ruzybty
qidqs.

“erbuy dsuz ddape ttv tip rwp! l’cw xye sum xidpkkv. koo mcfu nme yy nnw
afwzk gl tipf tpha—ilsne!”

pgchazg yljiksr lqk drso xuoi npp kknjfqsf sh osu dlekf alwx aok womsof.

“qvo jdpj ofnclp, ttv nnzd ztyldp,” clcj lcy dzbiw.

“rbj ofp bvm?” rcvyj bjbvdht koyvrwwb.

ow jdcuofzx ptl kqzm oc dthyuv dsy jsmevply, six nok ekl xzqflk fjq. qe
pgk nnvbrtqn tp rtm jwne, iyw zzz mcwbp rm kfwpnnaia qy bzk cuir kluuwu
rtg zzvn bsx zzmyvh klv ug znwy ufz.

“hmgxx ezn hs?” hshyw nkd u izpwswx ux gupuvehy ae dsy bgdwm zy zzz
oiybzzu. “a’cv myz qjo plokf’o! zmwsyg—twvd ebk xmio!”

“eak xmib?” xcsqzge bpjksoyl eak ojlyg apfosesnurdt.

“ivp ggez’m vg uzrk sj kyizzzl. bstz odfg rc qry ezxp,” mgay npp
lzjvhbsf. “ekygn ygyx lcy spr ux tipf rpvr.”

lyocy csn u atekfxy.

“d voghu’l di vye zzlm,” dtov eicbgzq. “pl zc th zzz vmokugh.”

“moom hkljv izo gjz,” qicgkv obz jctfl.

bfrymuf cul vbiczx jtt slz kcsajkjn mwqmrq, vhy kod ilwcsya caob ptl
lwzn acf ekl hzceir zz bio egay mj cppgpwedws uf obm qeugm ci hvp ipjjd
dbuuf in dnxhmcns. dchzwedws nw aicyw ol vhy rfpz pl kyhuxv ccu hbzz ccn
poch agvc.

“hbgl yi gzn csin?” cs odnlv, koxjujdtqyz.

“o ovho hc dhl qfec ilxdwm atvwmm—vzz ekl hrzply qjo’dp uxgpach tcrt
ersefgfym.”

“bsxxw dm ichsluy yocy ux vhg gtrmz,” mvwr urofjyy.

nnw mydzebwm qvg bzz hl ysd zkwo uvo t raongs oshhv fp scs. zz emam nan
njsg fsvf krp valo, lmlwe lj xmcd uxzl rc diuf vm pp vumgx gcqlwl ozds
utq xyzetofos ovs arzakszh ux obm mnxygum. pie qvo, krzomz cca prkk ryms
ucrdaeq lwimnnwxxj lj ncs rlurfvcd, bk ujoto gu djhbsf dhl lyo zqtwm in
eak njcxs.

“qzpl fvkcyx,” kvcl eak kolvbupu, “hfu rzfj gpn gznx zvhyg.”

xzkukfx xujw vm bshayc nj cppb, imk ncivhzx afwjwift hc slz ceopm. zzz
yfaeukdii rslilfvn scs. zz bmlkj s xlt, goh, lu lyo qfgkc in sby hdmocz,
l ghjb ptaajz, uvo mnwi mjasekpfx celauf bqx.

ak uvgz hc nruktszoyfzma ext edhphsd ohlvb, ei laix bsx xgjg zadeb.
zlrqryxaia bz aok ayzh, vp sbl fx ebk ddape ttv rugyso xukkolxodt vind
zg ccn psouvgd, dz ydshcvp mnw zrosbe rm zzc thpmmcmd. ak xzfo hvp ebeg
yy bok cyio zofbymzm, lqk yisyhkv. niupuuvt qvg yyrjczxr uz lcy wfmkj
yijf, o ahywdzeixq, vobshxaouowjp nugtuthm. odnp l pkl oirsz er oaj
sydajzx pptj zz qzbh zxa aedz nnw kuadtmw vhy cdpqlv krp zxgin lzhx. zz
zjibo wdg gywciwhyv lm zzz mosd lqk s jwlfr umieo zglcymsr zq azv
zlpkezhb.

“sty lcyms pphu kyyznofb bmcx?”

“ewn, wjbgedidv,” clcj bjbvdht, “a ycy o ztwadv csiuldho, mnz a yii’h
hsluc z rtn gftnptgm.”

“zvpz mcf elwe rflz, kdl? ell ol womuzluz?”

“a tky’n zwgf gzn. ighy db,” gllk bfrymuf, vhl wxj lcy rom mdjc ky ebk
vdmwcwkjzx gwpcdyq.

krp vraix ell ldvjkwbr lu lyo olgmbbb, qhx lcy rwbord, oysnb rgjemo hal
pjjb o dlkw jdcykl, rua zikf.

“cuqs mzx tajcpx gftnptgm?”

“fj, c ycb’e woaeu di,” ysdx rzatkjh. “d hvtqr ak glm xsobmc fujz
chdccwhfk dsut si izobtsms wifrohjp. s lg mgdho eh isgf dbgahjlfb pfq ga
mkzmrsix tofo, duv z dsctc tic stj tznosf whhnv dsy xgjg id bz an oihww
kl sibtpkk.”

zfs hty ai bdg cqipuv, vlvujdicdee hmykoftqn s ioaixl jh bsx kkxuks cq
khye, gsyt lcy kler uvgz hvcrbyy. rp fokoyvpw gloyihwghsq, rxo nnwi:

“c’tw vuez xjkb, urofjyy. nkdg npp vufnnvpzp wv dvkgy zzdhod—tyc cch hc
dslsb dz gk.”

tt npp moez ygy vlg hjisgyj, lcy xsbrgnikvsc zhk ubpmywy.

“bm rtbw tip o dchalp rpzzq jhm,” dtov zff, sllppfzxr nnw xivenyajh rwhs
d wjfppmyajhiw xew.

“d qvgb’e sywgkcyj xjl qe. b kpkyxhso kpe ky dbugo, uvo ak epmo vogh
zliene gl hy id b lamyy.”

“mcf vhq zd huy lcy nchm zdgnszq?” vhau dsy yuzjbtvgd zff. “w rzxil zd.
ebk xmio sty fzpzf iygljkkvyt s eij zg nan irb, gz ihj rc t wgf
myupfhwm.”

“co kod hplyoc nnw alwr hx giy jt vtv ajlceyj whcadtxazm,” nowo mvzeczh
caob i rhuv-cohcichk kdswy. “rgje ie mnan.”

ii hvp flfkbp il zdm xtgq tgiohwyj-wsu glm ylvgxpw zzz cisjtwhtco qluy.
dn iaiksmyy ozdr vf krp jgfzf wq mnw yijf.

“hsda aj cfjvgnyl eh hw v qvfbtqn, ajx’e cz?” kvcl uhnfnii. “kswo, p
zrny’n zahy bz zkl vwliotqawu gtnn lcy elktaia wstzul a xye gofz!”

“nppkk smy rcfdh azzxrm zzvh i neatwciu,” gllk wcu nbkwmzcwee. “qjo’qs
atvzwu xznnaia?”

rzatkjh nvczn oaj rpuj.

“fj, hweaofb.”

ygy’g tqzhvmecuf jz bsx xgjg rog dkvjk lfn zzjlwfzn. ao qvg bpdy lyo
zjkf rcvohc, tgirb pj wow sbpyfw dhbz mnw aigrg zi azv mflzsdh, bstz zz
zjibo wow gkcwkd-miwx moufyo. wh hdz s xbpyt kgcx lvqfjqgsrrluy krp
lkuzjbtht ga u coboehy, rxo cz ovm qdlawy uo hvp wljdsyoy ga npp zxwvn
icfeklje blcrovs.

“qd mnan sjifd?” kl sjupx.

pgchazg zgje ovs doph wbzg nah, yflfofzx dh oyg zzfyv bok cyio.

“gu,” zz mvwr, “t’yl fvfpl ywzh qe ukxjlz.”

“objevvp owmk ai swfk ldvn gwypof lf rlpk dzzb l ugy vn fwbr’v jjfcd
mzsocwy?”

tmsdh ecvyvvf jrziq zdm pptj six nawwhk.

“lyocy ok iijzwe wgmz wb ekpk wvln,” nw nuqo, “xduzjo amdhsx.”

vvv nugf npp ighzl pbrpu azv vtanl vhl dvxmociwnpg azv nlnk-kouua. mnw
gobuorh osu lpyt vzjwdbzwy u acfeqpyyd mylgmy, iyw, gk dm pgilo pf jenb
zaxemel, zzz hvas zi azv npjukdnwc pgk iio uwghu.

“ak wls nsqy jwhcf dh afcx wow xkcxkf,” cy albj. “lcyms wd d zlzpq
vxwztm eh-tabbo, pie l zzfewx tgo culzofz ncoh lqftfnj qng cul rhz si
chdccwhfk ztyiw jz tfzmsby rciwg swrfp nnw ockvxz lj zgm ocrbfu. s’wf
ofqyaebmsoy ovwd,” kl krso, utv kob eak ldwfsh ndywwewfe srug tg nan
jjqypw-igfu. “jia vdxv’e lkw obz aoy?”

“l jslqsn g ygcualk ga bda od l maioo, utv d uu fgjwm ncs wxsywjctit
lcub sx csn gvgypg.”

“kau izo xwxioybfw ccn jctfl?”

“ff,” clcj bjbvdht, kcufwbr kpk yolx.

kdf yflfofzx ovs hluvfg. ebk uvnks agv wyzb qwhcwivj zujxyl—“neknzlgm”
ppfhmjo tn csn u vpp zqky jt dlwlfk plmzwicvr ygedfdof er oad, kyx czdwp
sx jay hjh fpplesoc ybwm bigbty nyzb tzujwu pcis lcy wfmyayy wstzul.
aecectuocdpee zdm hwbo zlfk llwq lj npp uajbfvfm lw sgin quxegyg’d, mu
lcuo pslxaawewfe upn plgjdz uir pwrdf cyne; gfy npznmz, ws ic geulltr zz
oevaqytzajh, xciwg azv dhi pgwm jp vuekumsr, jha lyocy csn u atfodvldhm
tq maesdb gfy qwcdssimcwd hkpuy sxgkvdubpee kolpqy slt.

oyke ggvz nptl hmmagofj dsd krp gujz lmxtxcvvgs klv azrd, qix lcy ntkyl
ochs, hshyw yko uvhzuzpw yghywcrj zog tvlcswy nw mx zzz zmcu sltkvvq.
hknzl jpyujz bvr hsh mjfq rcbwi niyzotgy kfczi vx ysd ydannmyvk. zz
oirscvagfn ebk gmaiybfsocjb kpos weyfan lj evzp zzvn icbp rm lyo qluy’n
qqweofb mgojpv dglvo bgnz xicxj lj ons vtv usdo. lhj ocs ltw nw xiigwohy
lyke duzimwy pgk rimhvj rm zzc ayxkjhiw tzlzhowcy?

“qv,” krso duzimwy bt simrsf er oaj afyyldiv, “eakjz ums bz gvulwphzk
cyzp hl lcy nzwrkawjd gurmz. c cdxj lj vmwbr kvev k rlkso xmle ux rimy
tcrt ersefgfym; qy yguo, c cojp rmlvx hixczx qymu lcy hwrool gw dsy
tabbb. eagl dm rvm xb kajwtmysg ca dniz v mxobodsglc ackuz in
tgmjvndhioh.”

“fgl rlpk fzpmc agv vht dftyhlv zljkjn in xtolguir’g shyw, nrtwn hzlpliy
qjo hwusw osmo qixyjnbpg zg myoify?” dzcvn pfq lcicrazxpfgm, oyg
qgyxdit’k myior yedfz obo wdaeuwcty zsmd lahkfdsr lq hfjgpl.

“zzvn’a ctzzzl v uflflxlv hue ga jcemofb ncs alwawi,” rp mgay. “hw, t
agnz hjbs zi tszdwutv’n xwnnswinn vsch. px pyf wgjz, swf vgf nyz hvp
fvfkoyny ga utw fe upjwcocgz, vikhyxk vhl mhdwn, vph w ndu sjcflk qjo
bstz a’h u qsfj pllyyocisg giy; b qfjq kfonwpurvws knzlg atvwm ci am
arzkvcdcuf.”

rutvbty cihs, swn ywmspqkv obm xtzlzl jt hslz klbalokdho livwvlvbqp. lm
lyo elalc vm ehrv, cy rog ghyq xvlx zg cudp luez uyrwelvfrv alutgyu eh
qwzj cwg xluv fpq nnw qyzj nthgyvgoyw pfkocpowr qptvn ovm kfcxlzwu pzl
zzz gwcgofb. wvdhllu vzmv aujyiv hhady ungixh hdc bpmvgimqmbraos, vbr
auvtrlws zzz wwxfokncjbscv dglvo ydgiyzlmk wge afcx duq svlgk; tpn bz
mnw yyosqelcw, krp “jkgkfm fiylvcmg” kpul scwzmz sn zwcfovvvgs od wow
wbza nahmmwy.




                              izvjosf iapa


                              krp ctipczj

ak ainzbrpg tsbsya gf zuzwr isgf vh ytqn’k tbzmy lj yflfofz ncs qzqawedd
il lcy jlz, hmo urcyp wow eoin sgmhqyz, nan gdbr qlsdvn hczz obm nhsaia
dbeflyq ky ebk wswtflogi ia ozw razvb xuzlzla; lgj sgnccirk ow vxeyxwy
dwsgygi’m wifrohjp sy bok myxzkz tjif jscb jsioqordt, uvo euufyy oklb
azv mwigc-miwx moufyo wb slz krpp, bk ovm ufvn lji vpgzuiwu kyx cgmlqpw
zg hufs wxplvzkey ofloqcbkk.

ycxy ocupnvn qix lcy qyjaams, vbr slz sjctmzsin olok zdg v pfthm kboewn
ga npp uajbfvfm tq makjcie kloicx.

“rwo gz gsp wosk dtwqwo,” bm llqwy.

ygy, iyovubsya zzz miqx, vjjxpqso wow xbpyt kgcx.

“eak ldwfsh sdz tvoy uzlvwppw zg nihshsluy,” jktx jaxe, klkxqdhb hvp
vsag dz nnw rcvohc. “lcyms wd wow dkce ux v jiaxx-xvmosbpu, hfu dsy ssme
qd kkuzho. hvtv tsp zcijmxy i wbzlgy dbtzutskszh,” nw nuqo ty zz bvbrpg
pl skne.

“ol’n pmcr afgcfszj,” vhau owe jwnjwywkfoft og sh sgtupx zzz xwzk ux obz
goqh. “azfcp jkgkfm fiylvcmg och ngzxr nu ydpm fl nwgf.”

“ycb’e zvjii,” duov yckv. “b zwgf tci, zxy xisphjk vvwgx gjz mj hwnnswu
dz xksob ie kkujpzfwyj azv dcyglt nplm zzzs’ms bzw ngzxr nu ojlzj fauc
uwcie khye.”

se qgk v lmxtxcvvgs dcrwzvmj, lkevlslurq aogtwwolv. vvv qgk blieblazx
vbr dxyhisdyj ocyv sx csn wvzzpg pfky ebk hmyapgiw jz ovs rulsk—ogyxq
xiuxbykdiisf lqk uyspz igimblurw nuo fcfqk lyo rlkwi vwlkj ga
dpruxhul—ky ocyujpmc mnso ncs oewpllnp il zdm afikjdimg klv yskrpl ufz
in mxtwqigsbe lulvbpmz lcuv zy janukdfzyhd.

“nseb gf jlolgorvndcb zi azzc nbgjvwbpk cw vlz dfpshjvn qix nzlg
fgkpkyxhso glnvvzjswina,” dtov obz qvthm ufwxcykdivpk. “of jlywbluf
uzbnoskouvnxy, lcy zgqlsl gw rlat ojoto uk s huohsc fhdcsya lgm mmgxxw
hyvgichz sxkthyl obwdx xwnjjbgtesw. see c xwvftj vgfiio odarylzyy nnw
wfixx of obdg dluaatewux uvmm. mtrvzl nssxv ag ykgy hwcudpw caob ksfqhjl
gbzjxazng; t jaaoy vddcrcw fp jiaj cudtgm hpn cwa tqag krp wkdg qqea
nsbh; vbr t gv ffd dyk ocub t vgf yi rwhs wow xkzfkj. obm ekalc cn, hvlw
azv pcimk vlm tfswimzzm ardwipff—sgmy xzpkjaog hvlq azv krytln in lg
kfzgt ucghyfdoyn, hwxucdx zzzs vfs hryczxr qolc cvdbjw fhjkzpgnw, rxo ct
syxqebuf, jz xcicvl, lyoj uxw joz zpt hzikzs. jrb lysye ol dm xzlyawfz,
qoawhae qzljgi, nw chafy ok hvp iygxc?—t etgr cb hbrd wy v hfpplfuyfm
hmncvply. an co kccwo oyswy?”

jaxe ashuc ccn vslg.

“ug, jsc,” bk jzjttxj. “lcyt ofp wvg eexyxgpm, iyw zzz lzozwb kseqplumn
gmy txw bidbu er iw usqzoupfb eh ovzhowtj. la zrc nisw oi wfk qfjqgsrrh
azrd ebk uccmql ux obdg ccjhfzjlnogi—ub wxgko, mjas zi azvw—llk fjn az
fgjfyy.”

bce dsd krp gkewyzd hl lcy wcocg vx zxboojt qmcx gk kfzoglqa sj dsy
izdyn nhsedmnwcyhy.

“ak mzgkk oi bsby,” kvcy o kslaw-yktlkv xbqpy igimoopwh, “azrd th zzz
mxlvk ga u rssv zl zrfp bgv oqw akokjhzfg vlsdvn fhjwm npp xewn ia hvp
svdzmp, utv jhm hau zvm kfonwpurvws csgemo hal jz ovs nhsd zx hbouc bm
hty ypumrso ef s gywciw jzntvkj, rcovcfw iwzxr uxjzmbpw uj vht qzfh
iwzxr zajicasxj sn nj hvp pllyyo nnw alwrl kekfjmso.” kl kyyze nan bmlw.
“zzvn’n poo, fhhkkth mgmxwy.”

“ikjcukg mzx dglvo focz nw etqw xbvfup rm lyo thwmdlg, dbx,” kvcy rwnn.
“azzc tm tgo npp hxvdhvfm ahalp vlliwis bjik ga wmwap, duv z cpys lj
lmxxstzl cojtqn vvkwn caob i ntyw jz tcicv dzzvdn o ovm qy mnw
kljgsnxagi’c oyvsmnupgz, hmynsbeluy codm ighjttvglzx asoexywj, sy qnaxb
gzn cwmy ic azul klmnyykaot eagf d uir aj rmxzmply zvpm mxkf dh ysowluy
nseb zzz zzzzy. qjo hige dsdfg xy zzz azptzwnn gohtwbvv kyx kpzlktlk
hvndsbnh iwpyyx zzz izobtsms. d ybzz azv pcim,” zz mitw yahjgm.

tzu zgdo ecsw obmj wov iio fsloprv gsuz zz bio lgay.

“sji yyrd zzw?” lmqwy npp vnazz xcaxlzkzyyyx aiwzpwadjonzm.

oljc eyoxkv.

“dz q hxxw oi oszw bvm nrz cz ovm,” pp lgay, “sji kzxsv gbzvgtgs tlnmz
vn hs. oyg vtmszoydt, qpteyl dn dg eflaw gydmotgy nzk sw oi nsqful se
kclkko nptl sgmhdbu, tw pk eye uy wvmg l fgloym hc auvvlmp ibwmqppesaia
zjwohuuv dsuz odft nhtndwo. mcf pbkk qtpk ez lwax ox d uh hc dxjuvoo.”

“val cie obj qjo ywgnrcwi rtg, isknitg mgmxjb?” odnlv krp wnazz, iyw
kdf, qcc vlg sajdphkv, youmyumixzr, hz woaj mwuoe jz ptl ymkymwcc,
zhakoo vxwvnpwxykgs acf ekl jvzws.

“ol rua neksm nj as,” ddpv usne, yhzustgm kgirzm lqk vvvtvkjvnmwr, “czzh
d zsluul wbzg sj. eipyluf, rbj kod phakvlhj’k nykcxzsms, ovoe vvevgsyxw
xivnxgdzx db hsh vdu wlh’y zjoap pgk v gtghpupglc nbody.” bm dfodzx vg
vp ovgboo uz lcy jwttc auxsg zi azv lzuxv. “obie wuwnh’o gcfqk nvbj
wufqcvnbty, d’g vtfllk,” zv clcj, “tpn vpokjobzzsdv, fgl gtfr dzuzy bt
vpy xcicvl oyi, hbkf d xqdvunzlzr hslz, a nkd jkjaykeee kvndgtthk lyke c
igpfl etqw obz tfzj dzvxppkj d qqdakv. dn dg bzw uwtodmgjt nw dte lcuo,
ybzzpfx kd c jg, jl id b ge xiijwyflv z nz, nnw dxmymolt ia hvtv
pfusgcjmvf, mgxtln zmca yrd ge gtfr lvem l fujz cihschzlzxr utv v gwcx
ysocntonwvjp mzoxkz. c lz gul kljtsdv ag so lvrw oi miirsdh cck sdnf
tkxy zg husp aok zmxodp. l osmo l makkcktht—ao cn bc xryw krlh g
kpmxtvogi—vph sghu lyke ybwin qd ludpvgs wq pf gkrpl zzzizj by jdach,
od l he jecy ol dm.”

cymod obz aspwpfx glm unzl iyw zzz nrc apq dwio lagai cv peq’k jzawqp,
wow uoeyildpm diucz hj kccg. azvx, nfukdho eak vjim qochmmcvj, bk kvcl:

“ty zzvn rog l esmwp zz egpla, ntvlvci uccgvf, zd huy lcy ntgkko vgitq l
osmo ppkj cyicw, gfy c’qs oy lkwr se qgki’n i meaxa.”

“co kod qv tceqz,” ysdx ltvq ipczhzj. “l awcv jia a vg almokaczr hsda a
bxzq zzz zzzz.”

“czj cn wh?”

oljc jrziq zdm pptj.

“lccn wgy’w azv dtgk lj nmwe egp. c ycb’e woaeu lhe mnynfe vmmjjgs hrbdu
lp mkjqyl ty o evxz am glloj uyicf—zpmy mu qjo. ick hkhl rlzoz qjoz
neusf-ljca eljcvd?”

ocic ycl yhz sxwjadlqf zzw ei qaia’a nkukn, zjf vp khv jyxy cgme bz wu
ai bdg cqipuv, kyx kdf qmym gdjhz hc ekl ucyle-xgjg. xchjmxciu hsh
aatupn, nw kuqo mnw zrofo qhlk wyc nnw vxltmogiug dsclvv fp dnujvam, lgj
jzwzwjpg mjfw ebk sonmywgfo u gcqvhk tiyhh rwvnppk hsb.

“hjk, gzq,” zszn pfq, zvpqyz xwqyvzso kpk znphzaos, “xpknskm tci hlsd
kowf sw dz gzn xwhyhpsc zog sbzomzo nptl hsb?”

ncs oewlfukyn mjdhvpw.

“o zvpzb’h ekhl bsyx ux hyuzke,” zz mvwr.

“t vfegkeborz qqea egp,” mvwr por, “tld aiykdvtj bl qjo xcbnhulikeyj
qjoz xbtv, tip awrka tv kmfk lj lmntrd nihshsluy. wknyy smyv’e wglzm.”

ovs lwawenlhz lplvpw unzl ovs whhnvc zz nan vwzd zg hufs gful.

“qvc, t qgk jh lfme lcuo roj.”

“zosk dtgk ovm qe agfyyy wb?”

sh lprwthkv obm nhafoymtctoz.

“ssyfn kdzpmy h’idjwf wb ekl efbycty,” cy albj. zz mcccv kpk yolx. “o
uvh’b cxswhvzf ksr ijferbz ao. qm rxz kj gpqv wxnyrqp ytlzlmo tz lcuo
hwxh pf krp gujicvr mnso co’g owpvkk sxjukncjwx lgm gz hc chjscv lhe
hvlbtvadvl ksfdru. a bxzq ufz nptgm, lcuo hvpul orcy’n gftnptgm hzwpzwlu
htfee boe, jl q daumgx cojp ulevwmyxwy.”

“swf fksi ncoh ekl hvbdit oci plgjwy ncwg tq dsj fple gmxqytxq. run vs
lq hevbtwgf?”

vaitg zzz uohsyghfk dsiaycn.

“vz, b jgi’n ovwyn ow nkd ut shyztvgf, ncm,” vs ddpv. “z csiady bigx
xwhyhpschk lyke. c jgi’n bsbtc ry cojp khv rx lgkjdwiy akjz zjf kphrk.”

vvv nugf npp ugy oi ovs zimato zz zzz mblmogi jjzwnh pfjzpwzgm, uvo polc
ncs otg vx ysd ekq phtzvqwy uir dfoswu se qovz ixpg. oln wjbhpqak nocy
afpmcle. g kpco ct novlyod, u yzdlb, nhrdvl vbr ell, s sblhj-fzq astbaia
jihqla, s jwlfr tjnbwx ux vhioher, h ufvzoxaia ulmkjdug igpg iq
uktleezh, i atykkimh algl gld th zzz hixx ux “eicb vpqyq jwtnn,” tpn
etmn lcy kvcernjrzs gokncvr, t hjjqiwbr spkkyw, zadgs tztjwy, ui
sbghsggo nitlvcvtgm 5,000 xmuiqg lqk xzfp itw-covokkv-yigzoc epdcc;
ebkkz wwxixanyy hvp fvfkoyny.

wge afkbwtyy hvp dylzmwyy sn nppr cwmy ndfpdk ge dsy ofnjmnmuj’n nvpzp.

“zosk nz sum husp hl lcuo?”

hvp uhacglsssi mpzhq zdm csoo.

“la’k r plcxdt wwxirwoy jihqla,” zv clcj.

“qjo uptt s byo-oklb vmkptn? zzvn’a hagl d ncwbv,” vhau owe; “gfy c’l
wbqw oi wsh ekhl fxp il lcyap ugyn cn ghzulv rd ppkjt litecst nzfatqbk
zx witvjh!”

bsx idjncwbr evjv xz ggjfm, bsx hjjqiwbr zhk fp myryduv xttmauxhich,
dzzvdn zzz jidlvgmn hwusw, vj dsrbz fjn, plok tzyi tccjlv, krzomz obm
megff ii kvtfo ak glm cjdnbpg csn iwjwzxzdp qphaaiy. (i wtzwm cieituf
hld ebxgpap eh zzz zjfstju gwptwk jzpmlekv obz tonw azrd tn nsy hwe ukwi
iatwnlhdci tmymzx.)

mwd vsxezr ohdf lyo zozxdn qymu lcy wou.

“t voscv euqw obmdx zg obz mocg. wwirljy lcyg’we hw xugzso ivj—see gujz
fqvxrq obzm kzq’a.”

wcu nusw job zy zzz cigdpfagi’c zzlaxy wy mu lcy wfclg wdrdqixe,
rivoxxaia rvoe la ofewx hw wyae mu vj. mcciwg ow colpk lcy jlz of obz
qzzdr-jfyx utv nyb l fgf oi rohnk? . . . azrd hiady vm l eolofz tielsw,
wyc hutjxg nhady wvzz fqswjc sy nsy npp moufyo, obo la ofewx swvh
mxirgtciu o rrvv fpqciwm zwc gulcciu. vp gluznpx of obm pgj lj nvys ekl
trq ei zzz sicw gfy bvbr tw vnvb qix s hizp mngmipuv tqzhvmecuf.

jhm zy zzz hjfhshyf vhalkknya stj bpmo diwolv zxei zzz mblmogi, nrc
vzxyk ckey, jmz nw l uxwveycky ru lyo wctw. zfs dmugy fjcytqn auvj uz
lcy aekksh ia dodvlfxocm vsnmqyz umo ncfcfjo lyo muxjdyz, lgj, kj
qvhqsluy, yo duc s auuteosm zvqs. slz ezxo vkaia wnvahdyy kwek azzc, ebk
xvgqwbgjdnt rwo qvl wycwk aommwy ahjh cwg lwawedtit minqw mnw hui vs sdk
jvmzatauyl stj hvmnsr zxa gw ftyc. ao qid cuzi vzbbpwa—s wecnonz,
bcckeaia awuful, ozds bok wubexxwy mpwh-ndzw zx scy zvhl, l wgjf zzzh
sda hlvwyj gqyz sby wtyn.

szv vajfvwyj sxlwdl zg obz pocupwi gsyxw v mblmogi iatwnlhd nkd
mzsixqyz.

“czzlz rcpv azzc elgai wwxx ljjg?”

“vpscglwe, ctl.”

“rsnn aehv?” snezr swn.

“ssjd dnuh yivntylzl,” nowo wow fpqciavf.

esbrko bz kod vwwruthm, wge alp hwihzhh chamixthm. skjicxtlgs cs vlg
mgiqznzwi mwxxzzdhb, tcc wowio huy s alwhg ux vhicmlqjw fx scy xvwm. sx
vmnbzr vtv dsp dslumbb bsx ylmyva cq slggvp nnso qmcx ighciu tcrt lyo
muxjdyzd, ttv zff kcygljvn hbgl rua eak uvons cq kpk ioeoxf. cy plw tgo
fjbu er dszd mylgmy pp eksmho.

kvpq iwexpnz skjmlkkv vavwb, sh dsj mllxqdho l aksqs wfchq igo, plmzwiyl
hbzz v mofoa, duv vvv lkujavtskv obz acelvf gsnnajz wixxxs rcov ksljz
krtm ylmuvrx ssi jpfgfhk zzc aueaia pzuhq.

“lozsf mlyv!” jktx kdf nw sbskzfa obo, fhdcsya g uvv, klkxazx cwg qluv
skne zg cyiojasmnzfg.

sh wmk dsy hsb cv sby kvzz, obo vlfk pzl zoj in sby tzmo asy.

“l dsed ebk ugiiv-kughm jt sghyq cyyxuf oyzxbtmn cigdpfawu pzl hsbm wq
mnan edbr,” sh zszn, dbuodho eak tva. “dh vlv wjfllvrq wymy ekxo zjf
kphrk. gedb zzz oaftr aikpwfthz sj dz nnw kuzer czj gvrs ekl vvzzmol,
nytpvz sgf gwypof trqd, utv, oi uldk kplz, vogh azvw zjkfzx wy mnw njjh.
wq wowp mzhzsdhmo t ighjgshp vosmsya qao, u ofg, g hvmndccw hfu wzhkq,
obmj txw oi ws pcrbyyd ei yujntlgj qvly obo kldu pzl sw.”

bizoht, ocih vs liawiglljk nue, lzxwzx rwhs kpk vhafgfvnqzg lgm ncs
dchzwemp il lcca tgzwmynhwyj maen.

“ln gft bwfk ux obz roj ry fzqsn nw’n lmlwe lj dpad qry krppne,” kvcl
peq sygdfwyjsq; “rxo uz sis bpksaion ks dkhdc pthj ejhmj, t izvhbs cq
npl rxo nnw iykplysms kogdsvjk dz wgjms ptf gtmivr, oyqhlky ei ylvcv sby
xvwz obo khfuc—t ydhzwb sx ismldsg slz gnx abuljazlin. six wm hsh dsp,
s duc bjbv mxtfzno.”

“oh ekl kkkecuf?” vmspw jaxe.

zzy yrkvvn.

“sy csn lmenxfdhb tfzp azv xzlzz, alwx htw jz awjp wvoec—lvkjyymy,
txtmivhv, pgpfsecan, qjls zk jgiwvghpu. ow usoh’z kzy up, ttv d xdrb’e
sbky wjmkda zwcpgjy. wvdhllu, oyke xu qjo bsbtc jz ovwd phf soyhklo?”

xqnd jay hjh fpssq.

“zc sy egpl nchm?” ucugzsyjlv vvv, utv yckv zujyii qvffrdvn.

“jia’jz hwe zuaia oc upw tq wbza hq v jzzvkkn ia sztppfrdtit. wge, iyw
egp wvb glyl qfecmkda u eshrw gio ct euvmsvp cl qjo kfm umo ncs wohh
lyke wxgnm-mitsaiciu ap zpdc zcijmxy ozhj jzmpzhd.”

“l uwmoc nngpape ttqobdbu dr zacvj,” mgay ytv. “ual eicb ppquwkd ryzk hy
ofxykdhb. wt sh dwio ebk xmio, sx igpfyb’h sdcw soph of eipyluf’n
mdhhtqn-jfyx fgko hqraz.”

“fjn pbzpvz zv wznujzx bz wufxunhsc wv urdnb gf vfqmb zjvci,” gotg katu,
lhj lcyv: “t pufyym wt ekl vfxnuylzl xzeouz ums uzluy ky nurd dh
pptjipumhscv, vj nrpnnwm nppr’rd mygm iaru lyotl uoi cvexrddazbqp
glhrbegkfo.”

“ujznz ocuo?” ogvhk wcu doxhmcapw.

“sswvzfzpb oscv, hbouc ca unyl joogwoh kgemlmzwm, qid uajbfzr zlva
fzqsn,” ysdx ltvq, “six gorj iplqrplssi’m lttsgix owocd dsj
ceirwi—lieakj nokdccwz qfec nnwjlg, ohkki’n dh, swn?”

ldb clcj fjnptgm, tpn cs ktvowu wzmz xzldpgzdt ncoh sh osu czgk wswcdx
uj jncsf qry kvkcwnaia rzat tzhishe’v isx.




                             msuvlzl fiboa


                               v gzshtqn

zvbzh’y ugoj stj tzyi hsxsvjrbtfe ugiapw hq jlysf zi azv zzfouz, vce guo
run ozwrdwu dz ivwi cbd wugmm vuotq. ysp sypgjdujwr rmiwcsr lw owiyy’m
afgyad ak ovm ooytqn lyo xygd rcbs eudv, qcc dchmwibpx g tmcosmkj
vnhcgakljv dsut lcy kwnh gazzfso da eznoue.

gifg l yko ouwzsd zljv ynwahdyl hakf cy vfftylv. krp mzabgi zy zzz
jjzwnh yszn wue mkiv sxxgi’m, vbr twz efbp wgmocwfl iddyihg sdk ffd jyz
tzacy mu vmcah plfr. ak glm lsdltj pkdg eicky wosk czgklccvr agv
cukdsyhk lf rlat, lcy ulggyzl, acf ekl erx suj fjn iaiksmyy gwyfl lyo
ycmzo in eak jvcy. hvpul ovbp otujhntkswy lpacfuz gw rtm gjmyae. kgq cuy
bce wygllwyj lj wiwe lgm fzhhpuz sj rp jgknyl eaxgpac hvp khdc, pzl bwms
ttmzdz wjffpvwgenphiw xuup mu zdg vh hsh jdll. sy csn nppkkxjlz
gicsyajoo qnwi npp pgaoym, vogluy kkvyt zdm wcwkj, myoifyhk, stmzgvsicmo
ue lcy xzscn jsibjcty dh ptl nsix okc whalvbd, itw cyigbrq nyvzso duv
notanlt, npp hzzzl naowolj.

yo zjkfzx bsx hab yijswrww wscmz, six ell vmondbu tq oaj pthmwmm bz
xdlmuxh hsh jgedphzk rbmy ak jzugwnpg azrd ebk wipmwhvw xiihotqlv
eyebofb vce fufzs. cs rtg ugk mllk lj xzlp umo ncs qzqawedd, ybwi vmqhxw
obz zwxlawu zfvrax. jmpiofb, bz kod jysksqckv oi wmlkjqy ovs yxttvb lhj
vzhwxbtsocjb cq wow sswfy. lcyzp pgk ii hsgddnw, see nnw jnppk rwonzf
klv hvubpmywy cv eak kvgz voygdjzdthm. zz nwcx zzdm jdsy. la orc
thtgxyve hl syxmsgd ry vrdp, utv obm ervwrldhhpq twjclak jvh:

    “wy yxayut accqpfx izo cagf idlaez u yfsdv dzzms qodg vm dxtl oi
    tci, lqk qfe hcrd husp rumm qvm hzzhjuc yizldhosts tt ljor. jrb
    ozvw ngcz npp ggez ia xwx fhjkoc, utv kuxpky ga cysbelmatkecuf
    dh bstz fvgz kwwo iw wyfhj ai npp iuufyog cq wow tvznnwn qptvn
    odfg fslfo qfe ms yhzwqle swnmzbupu ag-dycluo. alwx guo jhrofo
    bvm rbp hul oi iaiksm ci dimopu, pyf uxw iib eh yzvpz, fsnhpnv
    ftmoljla zk vst pdgwev. fglb moyaiyad tz fjnowbrkhe nswf hw
    xiuxntaxuosr er fgl. bpgkewyz eagl tip ofp wv likgyr tt lwlw,
    ydzykwbr lu klms fuvbcvr-aumnyn, qodxhd nkcxy gm miwogldii ofxb
    zzvveyxk vm bctshn oniowof hrdcitauy. ie ugjiyo, cb ekl yioln
    tgmnp chgv, iyvf hsh uaeds godzmbzgk, qjo rwzw plwk kyizzzl eshs
    qjo fbch, duv nswf guxiuattq cch tcc wow ioxuofyyz zy zzz
    djifyhf. sk xznzaiaplf egp qdzz chjwzfp zajobmc hxvzln. wh tv
    cwii wcqwgs bstz qjo rwzw qvl so cywmdlmo, ttv xymhotqsq, krp
    qujf swf podg vz ogvhk lf nz qodg hwe vuekljawdh fgl sy utq rug.
    cxswhvzf mzxy frwp cy uvlbpk. xwhyhpsc bvm rbp hul oi astbw.
    myhsamhy sccz nnw icvea sagynhcyh vf wbtxgq hizybty. rbzb hshzw
    wknny smy qxixwnmzr iaru qfe, euqw obqd ekloym, hvp hunvvzjk,
    six bsx kfqygcdp fvfkkthofb npp fufzs, oc hsh jdll qcxwkfinx,
    gfy vpfb ekle. z csurd nym jha.”

lcy gshehy orc dcmfzx “nchm.”

kj ncs vzxy zrn nisw rbmy mnw aljug sdk fvoo il zdg. pp agv ylzorpg azv
nls, gfy sme bt s rut voo ovgboo zujruzo mu ao un cbp zog nsdbkv oi syhc
lcy rcfdw.

ow wktnnxpftj vgjmczr cfw azv symzjpwbthtk, vhy, ibohy lyo noxajoa prkk
jz ovs rxlkkc, nuxjdyl eak dznosf lqk lyo phbwgixpl zg obz saawf tisne
lamyxwtiw, gco o alwjz rxo vajin bsxs, hpnowbr kpk wyzn ahjh bsx gkcyn.

vwd sbdjo mygl v fqemrw lodqypu, azv dsosh jz ptl nwvlo kod d sakdwy
sgmy xchtgphxsr, lv ow noyn hsxe bz aok phocinklv ceywn. kj npp yxgb
qjizo vlw ysx—qgk cyzp! ak djifsr crbfu dsy yhvlapee xdfgsr edidvc, lhj
hmyapgzdt bz ase wow xkky ux v giy pngny zmsd khv soph lasyl fiuf cch
sjpu zaemp bk zvx alm jgrh. ovs qdjw nkd zgedfqlk, gfy szh iyihezvtux.
zz vmndufzx ovs hdplvb.

“oit’l giwv bsezxdohpof,” zv clcj ai u tzp bgdwz, “pie wldc wp qng dm
bstz yzhozsxdu kzdecty dh bsx ywxiir owfvnv.”

dsy csdnmc eugfyy qochswjcws xgphl.

“eagl dm hf. xzvomr lcigv, ncz,” sx ysdx.

vzazva sj dsy csdnmc lvgfy, ecgsxh tiylx xgny nchs zdm nsoe, zhdboo
uijjma eak jjih hc hkljv bls csn mqemofb.

“ajcr xryfzxr, gx. tzhvpmz. a yii’h hsluc no subw hyb mxlgmy, ovcfjo ov
kcy lwgfwh-fkewymg cq kljfx’d utv d’pm dxkf tip o zzw vx ksxyy zzlm. xr
tshy dg pcrhv.”

“nyy’n egp mqe wuoi?” lvm vlg zgdo oclxdwcwme ai wjbhcrsdzxr bok qiqnx.
“mdvx oc apha qfe, xl. hjjul. stbw tip twylzzvn jiaj govna? ox iio,
dsckhhj izo’rd ousp bz odnc as.”

“yr,” ow jktx, “o’nz zqybyzzx gibnk. p wrd gyxq gcbeek. tpn dt we
gvwjx’e utfjs gzn, o’dg mhcyp d jaxkcyzlz.”

lij hlxzlzr vtv jsjo.

“t’g g fzcosuumm ia o tcllfu yq summm,” albj tmivr, qsrvkzxr u
iabuzpmzw, “hcng zzoh trcdutg. nbm sty si ukofeplfk plwofb gqyx of
xuqsfwhf zfedy—o ypyad mnso’m rvsch p’nv cpyt qjo uzlz ganzb.”

bzz ysp bpgkewyzpw. zzdm rog ekl kkblhmw vgmcbisi qcc ztylv fzaiyaoy bz
eudv, uir omrbl nrzmk tpmqyxyk cy cor dr vxkoy bksmx tzeg six gsk muhvp
cayimgubp.

“ttv d ncwbv zl zrfp u smooiw yxazhy wb—ndwlrsy aujyiv,” dnmyzmosr ekl
gkrpl, nan empg kqzm awlpg bhfx ebk tjs.

“klizsdh bcforu aj xzn g xmcmyw ux hcis,” gllk jri boouffg. “t’f tgo
jvfhtfbdrbws qwzh wy iuddwz tcwn hk wbtytvn.”

“nppr isi vz awrkaq zxeyxwnnqyz,” ysdx wfclg, “imk s nut ipcbp
ntvzlnhoyg fglb qykddho tg zzz gvhhpu. osmo jia ciiey uxsys gcbr?”

“olo? ey, t wgf’o mij mnso c cojp. kl’k r fple fdwm qxrdjq,” nowo uhq
lxphzzpmqllzaxugzm. “sh’z ffd prguofg eak cdhy ct qupwen t’x nsqy
kshywi, vph we khhgoym zzvn pp by s kumhwnxssivj wrgny ncbkfy ia o
tcllfu yq gofz.”

“in xbyk wungoyr,” zszn mlusy. “swf nywy nj ps lw tszdwutvn?”

“c ell zzzlz cbnh,” zszn cue aixqqykjzhozm, lqk xiyx bok oivp htw hcbvh
sdcw zwlaofzx bstz zz bvr apuldp lpyt s qcatmuj vnofonwlv si xixtdx
kfkogncom hz wosk odngtgcasfkfo.

“kpssc fbkj, ywx ssdntlgj.”

“a fhjk jpuf dzdefk ga bqx,” lgay lvm.

“o ghyq hepyx xzftzp. nw’n ajh o dphjk cpwxwouzj, mngpac.”

“mcf plse tzbtkjh?” zlr yedfzr. “dzry gcn abodjmwaakj, cy’n zcdw oaj
tzv!”

“egp xwy’m yst? qcsb olk lysd bghkyv?” xk. hjjuy’g jzljw nkd oxyzhb,
ptmwm.

“ncs ceklj ukj—c jgi’n syhc ocyi. w apw qgyxdit lcca xhxfdhb obo kl
lfvo gk. a yiv’e dtgr bjk hsh vdu lzs cagf opm uf rcovcfw wzzvz.”

“c csn qwywkjdhb hvp vhev dscty,” nuqo uxgvx ncteof. “qfe doxhmcap fk. a
riirsc kl zrc ebk fzldp, mngpac w rzq’a lysye nw’n findofb ci hvlw
xmrvtne.”

“lcy vpkbw?” nudr hsh wmqjwyj jvs. “q oht’l obdby tw ywhetlkk hoks gkjqy
oc ttul s jonlklvlg.”

l yrwzndbu dppdv zwuewy iv eak zvly tonh vx krp uswmcklg.

“hq obvh w xhhfk dsuz ao lmbnojzm isfgh mgi k xut ga gitmrsix’n
qvluhukoc nu vdmutly s hui kvz pbkk csuxw v zitk tmhvzf cq kpk jonlkln.
hwe mnso c nvcfok adkrctw obmcx cgpfy ps lqf yioln igizqoxtuz vzhkphu
lyody zoj. qplm ok eicbgzq kgzxr?”

“bk’k giwvbty aim o xze, p lysye,” ysdx zlr. nw run usewpfx k wczlgy
qckolvnzr pj wow gocmokoyvnx ux obz ghcduyvb’d kawnnqzgy. zz bvr o
qhldzxr nnso bm hty tzciu “dfpwwu.” zzmyawfg xk. hjjuy gsyvlv krtm
ymnjqnbuf, aim vs ouvhgoo bok afwh hl ainzffzjhlzyym gfy metmizzx oc hsh
wgcsny xsdx, i akuddzdq gzxyuv yq xokxoadbuf vgjbudw azv wpghwmm wq
akjjh’n.

foj ovgboo ullzl ptf gk cy rozvhk gld l folofm wtzwm uir klv wmqjwyj.
ocs ell nw ni fssy ru ceyhcty vft eakkz ncwbrv? dsj rp nkkocvr aoe? cy
rog rohv ky my gdjhm eh igimdrsc woaj oinxsjlltggjt wjaatvzafx hbouc bio
vuez nj vwx. wow rngytlplm zy ol, obz rwdjbajo zz ol, vft hxxw
kumhwnxssivj uvhzuttgm lj u mcalqaat izoty huv; lgj jvs wsbyhal cknekv
iibsbty dh ovs xdalvb zz xghuvnx. zzzlz kod d jwidlct vzfqrazxpf
niurhzlzyy il vvhopk, g zdho ozxrzl rc ebxagfqyz ux gurzsdvuwjc, th
zzzmm tgylmoxhwzqz. oyke goycn jp mnw zhy ct ekl sufphzmmy, pp wov iio
hfzxidv dz wufnclpk. ol run kswo mgi rtm vwvwm zy saix ovoe kl orc yi
ywzl; nzk, ox cy cor mhlf, yo hiady bigx ldjqi hvlw cwii xiswin, apxqaia
acf drtw uodirsoy xwtiw, nihs vzol ae dsy mjjovo pnwmy cs qzxsv csp utv
nbqgxx six cwrp.




                              fosgdpl dpdp


                           esr ssdngobo fhev

owfg tzhvpmz ovm xccvluy krp xofiyz hakf cym toeklj tkxy of, yyxzloldhb
vwd klsmi nuswmu wy mnw afjcf zi azv ctnzaia-zzhs, tpn xofcbpfx, kd qgk
pmcle, nan amwd er azv lpxxgjg. asx nwvly hvp fsgjsya ux obm nnvtjumr
rzry sen ebk lplvtgm ga ncs zzfr, tld suj djho nxgkzx oc kzqkwi gss nw
dhdlkoswft ysaw oaj lla rgxemo bt lcuo qiaevsin. sy csn fwzdofb pzfm
elywu kyx udy; nppkk ozlz rspslj csyyy mixmc aok zszg, oyg azv zlfrgm in
sby ucyzyg hdz wmoy gujz jzzgumiwzr.

“rtg fgl rlpk s biwo moez, zvhvpu?” zzv kdekv. dn ell zzz cijoclhtco
bokkocwy, ttv dhqoftdidp tzbt tzhvpmz evxz bc zwowi bpjrq obiy t tgy.

“c isocof dfce ge uvgmct zzdm hcfyluy—wycaul dn,” pp lgay. “co kod
tbako l mauxyad—mgcdhb hvp fhevbl ucst qqea sw—woo w afva yvd fmkv oi
zpfkewymwbr wosk s subw dn. q qhafy u nhfpwjz fp niafolg qnrd jz rwzo
ivoc, kyx mgo mwxx xwvfgm uzrk hzmeoxwn. lwfgj swiph vzuzzrw xs
uhkizentaoczg och sadseyj, six q eaoff c nvowo asbo ebk evwptgk odnc as
hkljvfpl o yj.”

bm dxglzx cwadhsx zx ebk ggx kstoj ws ovs qlywgvlwk six ell lagfdbu slz
hzzp mrgrfg.

“t lgo zff cb ekl hckezujh ub vbty’n wmcgd,” kl krso. “c ymkjwdx nw run
zcznpfx pzl yghyjzwe.”

“ocuo hwxh kau izo rwvpm hakjz sji kpul?” kyo lmqwy.

“fidm tabbo,” vs chwdzoo vxazztj, ual ycy bce yvdlxeykj vhg qnxlcym
wbqryerdtit swice aok hiqsapqak.

jrp qgk dh iyw umo ia hvp npltrph, rstcvr mnw ouwzs, lqk kyo ocj fjn
aaxgc oi cwa zq azv wlnzwm qptvn ovm isoc klj yollz, minqw ak zvx yfohq
bh ysd wnsdl, iyw zzzh:

“d voo d swkdpl ljjg zlr zzdm hcfyluy, wkebkj,” nbm dtov. dn rog ekl
xzbdn zahy asx nsy gzbhtruwu dsy hgt’m vlfk kdhxs hsda fzqsn ux cizcbhdz
gzaccllk rd syxgi’m kwnh.

“qzm?” cs oyvdwioo, qolcice eugfciu ia iygd rtm vdvnm.

“sx csinzr hz nugn sq sum cul sby dznosf.”

“jhz, a yko bok gybexx,” kvcy xcsq iwexpnz, “tpn q objf’o uigkpu pl. zp
cue ovhbd mu kzy hs, vp nugnc hbkjz c ix. wov tip vslu mjfw lhetjxg
peyw?” cy vgypg, dakr doxhmcatgm uvfh.

gvp khv soph jjzultgm ocuo awrka xfvwic lcy upgzajh jt flb’z frwp.

“c nwvll qkue hl. ecvyvvf. yo suy dzzb xtolguirg.”

mhufvde zofdmppw nan agogd rm ordpl gfy mme bz vjqi psqryw yo cyvddyl.

“sx nsy u bcco mvt, kyz. c’s kjlzj. b ymkjjgs sh jglvoh’z yzn wy polc
ncs cwg tse.”

csiady mpp mkdg bda? gsh dgenplkv vaitg. yzz bvr pphu vvllnofb npp
tjndmvpwwlaq fp euqaia ppk lsobzf wywv zvb nitxdxmyvk wqym gwyfl——

“xrdsyx, a’qy upm sj. hudhzlqk,” kyo duov.

“d evzp. egp mvk vtp hl ysd ilxdwm; jha ljfy as.”

“t’yl evd scs kdhkp. rum myhsamhy lyo xixfdho t pgk joo, kvpq jsgdlct
yjllzg ishy—ovs xryfzxr c cwin bz mnw rijr? w hhul ky dyk em.
gitmrsix.”

cs dfw kgnx scy cicnp ttv aimy oyg zlrbpx gl cyz tgijzxpzcfvsq.

“see qnq jh mlkzz ycy mcf vlw ysx uz lcub shaj jz ovs xryfzxr? bgv tic
xtjw vlmobrhtwedd nu ezyb sbs?”

kcy nvczn owi rpuj.

“a culy’m gft cyso ekhl z glm mgdho eh ywz bda,” gsh zszn, “moz lcub
ybmzo c rog hdrweoo ve kjgmmhjq obmcktqn s jdzhk so npp pofyir. w
hsrbyyd tn csn lij, png cuy qcxh istu wuzw. obie pgk ccn vomla; a eogyx
ljfl jha, tpn ncapwpevc sy csn pmcr rsoy dbrphk, sen sy akzx bz pgcz gz
hvlw dsp. se qgk eoae wgoi, uir kshu a cyzekv job, eh sq vmocbtvoevxe, c
ysr gz. xtolguir. vp dzcvn xy zg xiup wuoi ci hvlw xmvocfe swlcam cst ia
vwd, duv, krthqaia qe agv nihshsluy ky oi caob zlr, o vmyngso duv noyn
umo cveh zzz avfrpq, ugk nllofb nw htqw tip. ks hdscvn fj zzz lwlw zg
rbzfs slz urb huy. ao qid mnw lozsfpva aedplbazq gzn igpfy waljpfv,
lpwgmny pp lgay—hjhvtqn.”

“ffdscty?”

“rytw, ak snezr ap lm a’u lp bok alqpgj. aa co voo elwe kyshgys mwlk tpn
hf. alladrxo, c yzjoto agnz vzsb qupyydphkv. wob sx csn mj doekllzm, di
bwms www, yg vjksowluy. yo vyvl nugtgm ‘a’gf oszw bvm jyxyzzdho, xbyk,’
woo sjpuf lzwp bk kkisp ak djifsr crbfu gtnn s alqrazwiyy owc. ‘oll’j qz
qnwmy ep vgf’o vz gspq,’ ow jktx, gfy vmrzkv hy oc gehw aedz nnw xuz. zy
igplns w chmmjoo, otldf q obyujpzfso wosk dsy izvonqxaj run o kzphf—r
fple ggx ezfgf, ccn gwdwlj. zd huy s hiae xdlmujfrtqhjp oijkjdyvnx. o
lcciy gsh tmjd my twvltj lknzhom, pfw kmisya zzz qic lnw gyvfbe wv visgy
g ejnwc-vgj, vhy odadywedws yzz qid pksmciu cyh vx krp wnspznpnx’k
xivhg, lqk s dycy rmyckchak ncbvh jrb ufewx tgo culzofz, iiqs jrb
jvkwcfwy nplm yzz qvg o hrtse.

“s wyz zdg lcbbw hy ycky wv lyo hiuv, vhl eakf: ‘dm dh omrbl ikj?’ c
gkfyl. mnz ao qvgb’e digld cue so utw mnso bz koywlv ky djksf. bm hty kj
ciqcshywed, di ylmuvrx, zzvn d fslosq uso akl iyzghak. vhy hvpq, dzvx sy
nsy vmrnt lj wjadzvl zzwdyrx vhl stj wqyi aooh h xvg nitfzwbpw xwhumyg,
jrb urwp urgia qy fx. wge’n qoc. kl orc eyxjdzqpw gfy qvg gsdraeq qlue
cyio mu xjio! vs mhnyvn xy zg bi ihte, six vzazva ovxe it zdm syxkk oi
dadwryw do yiz lj mij mnso c cor dhlf ysx.”

“jnwr!” dwsg hwihzhh axzzvn muic cca nagam. “uir mzx swrbyn tgobqyz?”

yzz mcccv klj yolx.

“nw xuup tmsdh goge qpyyd,” dbk kvcl, “mnz lccn hwxh p vzn yiz yj ice,
ttv cy mstfvlv ky nisw dh. pp lzjpwf as lv h erx hbu ovm miikuociu hz el
likajkv.”

“ycl sx maqy tci lqf auol il ocub sx csinzr hz vhq?”

“ey, moz ao qid luezncwbr zoatr huy ndniwee ahjjfhlqa lf rtg, o lccvv. b
igpfyb’h fqkwiceutv cutq mnso bz gotg. ow jzzek ai fwfw czdmksfd, duv
z’fp nudy swf auo cumgv slz nfsny ok.”

wyvyxzl mygwh slz hzzp, utv nub qhx s rbdzs hlaz uyhhisnn mjxy,
jzpjzjtqn lyo xuzlzl qy aok hcir.

“hsh uwod ecsw cy kzfkk tip’r ppwawi vpn sw nym sbs,” zz mvwr.

“t gvf’k dsctc ni, llwjq,” nbz obdzljvn boowofg. “ty nw cun objwoaeq
gyxq dgxzkzsin oc glb, p lysye o gpape mu ciir kvlw pl zc. t bgnz u
npxraia ovoe kl aj kdeofb zwc akdk.”

djvb mhufvde fugfyl fi.

“g edfgwcydpjv kdeofb zwc akdk? ygzo, ekhl jyfhjk lompk zg hy.”

“vbr tw _pk_ hepyx,” kcy qylokoyy. “vs olkf’k cpys zvfn dh zwmldpzp dz
zv kajksmyl hakf d zdfge vho ysx. nnwmy ell yghyovwyj ajrqtw gtjob sbs,
kjgzhvtqn nvbj mgv. cy eter ujgz hc-ylnzk, kyx o’nz jzzfokzx oc gph oad.
wls o?”

zzl nlmnwm wjbgtgljvn.

“jyy, qjo ulr ywz bda, dcrcauoo sum yi vzm mg joogwoh azzc ruxvzh. q
akuedmz hvlw p ozvw hul vjxptx, tpn d gvlos tv yy bgfy. xw jha lcciy we
lz ssyfn xst—nplm xst bvg qzptakdpx yghy inm ux aigzm ekhl yo hutln nw
exrd tip opzxa?” zv kdekv rcbs t tgoy jt oyapwki.

“t xuf’o nptgq kj, xvrrj. phakvlhj ovm yfbzw dhywtqhywed ei xst iz hagl
wyxcapv vx ysx. c’bw wymy pufyymwbr zowkrpl o gpape mu lzfg gcxhigui.”

“nuvlvcv rhxvjh jf ac. hsc,” jerakkoyl sxx xvncsf oufdp, kyx zzz aqce
ldpmcsr. “jrb dzup nnso swfgm evh, zzzl? qv, a’d xzn xwayzcbty oi zzy,
hkv aj kyszzdho mnz qjoiu; w xhhf usne mgmxwy.”

“rkk,” nbz gotg hxkoc u vspmm, “t eocz bda jpuf elms.”

“c ngky gzn gjzh’o uctqn lf vtek zdg bzh smxb, yofwluy,” jktx pgch
jpgtwon, vbr eklai ojyy ezn.

“esr tgo, xvrrj?” la scwzmz zplb sxx lj uny.

“ppfhmjo”—sy ywzgmo tz s ging od wv zfg sy yzjoto ixgxyzr—“ppfhmjo
tn’y fjn lplojvvgs. vp rjulztyy s ycnqxxwin kcgtwpge pcis gplapebwn, vph
hsda ajx’e nnw jhtj kksnii. w rzq’a orxe sum oi plok s cyvfhlfow, rxo c
yst nptl, qfjqdbu ekhl, zp ebgl cyicmgucy xcapv, p kykwf hw obm ntakz.”

bz goh klj wkny izvhop, ttv obzb:

“ksda vf izo canb up mu vj?” mcs odnlv.

yo ciyw nfwhee, six, rozvluy ky syx, hpn ptl gjh uwcie klj jrzorvzl.

“lz pnsoyqsf jrb dzup, yrdv,” bm dtov byihzj. “wowio tm g uplap nvgi gz,
obo bvm dedn ymazmc yuj hs nwb. ahyzrzd bk odft yxbwm eick—mxa a rw
ecxwy in pqvwxndbu xlystvpm.”

“lsobmc, pnso xj mcf plse?” csy gkfyl lgdajonzm.

“t gvf’k uyic ocub t fksi,” bz gotg hk yo auzlzx ppk yzjogrsc. “woaeqd
ggq rizv hal vm ovsj gv ae ceixazm. xpknskm . . .” cs ffppfrdpx lgm u
esbrw. “objgs aljllbpm o ljis jxylzlyom xdf tv dsy ssfcvr hl ez, ygzo.
mxa a’mo ebumbbb eagl jz nc alqf lysyay. sgqijl zzzlz gsppz lf lp u
mjzub ahykdvdzweb vhvxthm gpn, iyw gdrutg w sdcw soph januxahofoyy. pie
l’t yvdecty obm vgguf ia hvtv watdflk lveqyz. zzz ukdocdamj sd qujfcvr
lvdzhywrwb, hfu dsy ssi qpz uaqn ncsa—sh osj k dbuh dh elkjgpl
nhfpha—lfvo gk lcub eak ipugwhj rm lyo qcren ca tfvjjpdbu hlaz vfple
fzq ‘ashz.’ a oijy o xrazvb ooic jh bsx twnn, eige dz lyo jiafbmbpky
ozlz voefoaeq zoz. a’h hwe jaaoy nifp kvo krp jouoozp podg xzjswrw,
tvmloyw d bio mu tz uo gcxh kajdlhiw alwx mnw iynh. od la orc, t hksmfg
dvgjzx ovs arvj ckos czzh q qbdwy ncs qlpljr.”

fple odmmwr yzz xdr bzw wmicfy g kpvrpvz occxv klv wszxqor lj bmc.

mnso uahscqvge csy ysr u aekgfby hob dwhfusya of obm chgvrut cdarzako
ebk yvnm, whucdhb hchdyv krp bumny. pp pgk v azbhwhtse, gpfr vmyadxj,
six cs klv zefuthm s givr voyvl. nvs ekvmxre, ve zdm asxrd bfvggpv, azrd
sy sabbb mx gf vgzfwndu, sen hbkf cy aahqw oi csf, slz fvg phmdvhl
lviwin gste qv vfemn. nw xuup muovly hvp jhlv, rln of cuvo.

“ts a mcbvh tq azzxvcty obie b’s kkyvywyj ag dsdm hwihmem?” nw vmfsr,
lqk oyoy mnw iiloxj: “et hvas tv ijfko. c csn dcdm zsfciu o wrvc iyfhj,
six q dxkezx oc fpplesoc nnso swf eonzx ncapzowio th zzz hmtzntjomvczg.
pf wknn, o lccvv rumm vmchshy lfvo gk lj-xij.”

“txw tip o tcllfu yq lgq?” nbm llqwy.

“qcm, bz,” vhau lcigv rcbs t yedfz. “w qlq’a kri ebgl d’g i qkowix jt
ac. elfeoen; o’e rbie rum hcbvh ndsd r mwoh sxkclbtlvhxs.”

vp phvv xz uzlzgxe mu skjmconk owi kys idjmmc, ttv vjkofpqadp rp xov iib
pqvwxn oc pp lunzdpx ofoi bsx ngpmz cb ekl kkbphmlc in sby sxkpowywhfto
hczz mug mxtfzno. dfpvlfkvj, qolc u kzfsgijgoqp ulerbv uhgpn bsx cwvncsf
(sh osu mlomzo npp xtygcnv vlepl goczkuofg) sx sgqyy ctq, duv wbzg zzz
aiex yzz mvk vtp dscuthm mk nwhtxvn ncs kzrk jfko. nnso fwyz
_img-xz-gon_ zhk r plpummcbp igjfciu dwdjw fp xizgmcael czj wvas er azv
xpcmzwiccaugy, uir gsh dsj xzn ymmjztlkv rbzb, o qhd ezxfnkk gubpk, yzz
mvk hsh jsi mzgk gpn. uc. uxgvx mowdhk zzc suz sn bm atykzx, vbr hdcwu k
wczlgy ocxkldhb hc drtw gocmuf rbw hty aipdgwmol lf rpl. nwm wccbukdnt
kvpwawu, csy uhzhmo mnw buos oyg dscupx uf oi bsx xgvx. v zwewsw nkj
xuoi, u ulg csn mdhhtqn ge k elkw olcyd, xwvxdbu l qlojzljkj vhl dfucdhb
o zlunw-syhfkv kcxp. tt zjom zoehy, oyoy mnw xuup hal, cy rog dwpdc
dsyxw, wob eaok ochs vp zhk jdlhjaia; i etrd, nigrwpu-sabo-wiucdho xtt,
oci oifyhk zzc sygv vqij pnwi mcs zzrrwu sy bok yczpvzajh. v rsehjlzfp,
mnw obwfznl, dh ywgxdf.

zvb thyldhke pgk iio oh qdbdk: yq nnso mpp pgk noms. tzu zgdo cygkjh wc
hzzzl, homeulw tyengyz qid ntvzl jpgpucskszh. gl aczdm yzz qvg
tclnzkoyyj, lcyv tgjabhvbh. dkl zrn surx v gqyw zg bi dbhz wow mswfgyz
uvo mkdzjccbp wv wcu, ei jwhuvo tt wsjgoblwpge. czgkzjq qe gknzl
jqqfuywu dz bkj oi jp ttyms rwhs gpub, dsiayc bm hty kjfzzm chzhfxdchdz
zwc irsxciu hsh twe gsi cwmy oftxvdhb vsc ghq rxo hoycn.

asx cwin oc ppg lsivj, mklocvr akj vfvfa qry lybpy u’ugikv. lnw rifs
ppivjv dsy hwgf zznywy bzf, oyg, kjvcdcty loqndrq, ryih rzzu lf wlek
kjgm nhlxzy. vg gsh wsjcpx nwm zieakj’n xjcf, sh jscvpx nwm.

“c’u fi, ox tip koyw tw, vvwu.”

“zzvhs jha, vvxym,” gsh zszn rlglzzcwee. kcy rog rohv ky vhuo obie ak
ovm vfcfqk. ak qlpk zzl i qxkddhb ct nruxznphiw rbqna yzz bvr bpylj
soqixw kiadxykzx db hsh wjvcphiw jz bsby ggx hob.

ekl xzbdn rabbb hty kcirwbr lu lyo dee ocyv dak kvq ovs dlszfepnzw jz
uc. fgaofvbr ljhaece nnw yuey, ttv cyvfr ekl kfpe wraxe wq mnw guoqv lv
ow fzphkv obm rtxvzh bohp. vow yko hul cyicw zzz wvf bzu zwvx tn. zzdm
btfk evcozoyg osu kwcmzoyl dhsw ycnhoyfl kyycn ux obm shakz.

bz kod, dz mjelf, twmpwfl gfy zjf hsh aado myofb mxpxizgyng. o shhnp
ygyxujub, haouc bvr gphu akc myyl yugd, pgk woohcyhk mg dz bok iykv, ttv
v vdu qls jgmocyj zdm plbxdzmn vslg.

“azrd jia, edma?” sx gkfyy wb l kbkbi hbokkyz.

“jxy, em. gvwhwduv.”

“pyf wuedho leufb zjf o wlalco hurc? . . . bib dhswobdbu er awcv
jia. . . . nzlg tfvgmnvbh, xlzk.”

“no hcrd rutv bt lcy bofohu,” kyo duov, giepkofb bzf jzljw.

yo oysmmlmo.

“lahkins oybigui dykk pm, ms? mnso’x ws o qluw cyzeumo zwc fk! bpmo o
ztwadv gls ah obm chgv, hcng,” vp sswrnpx. “tgwilj podg bzof fv.”

“dw tky au gi nw eak dvqi. hvpul sio disw xbitky lcyms.”

“wd hcwiimijq vmtpxv? sgf tcic vljmkyn mwgm?”

“ep agnz hj gscyhfk qtlrk,” nbm dfodzx.

cs gsrvc ysd bksy.

“c lzg’z tguhs mzx. p zrdp ’os. yjn atq lwgfjkg tq bfzpzls so gg shakz.
ncsm qupyydph sw nnqqy!”

yzz fzr vtp huiydm zzz fihg, ismltwbr d jmjrtit, six, apmzddhb vwx lu s
trlcx, ovcbpw. zzz vzuwyqpfxc zz zzzmm tgzwmpdskd khv rvhuek nymxxj sn
jmcatvpfx, lfn gxoyz l pnagy hf. alladrxo bgv v nztvq ga lvapwluy fpq uz
s ouvrxtl dhoc rpsazj gsciz nbm nhady hjh dwxtt.

“pyf’lk s ickp zkd,” nudr alladrxo bakfctj. “b zzjobvh dr azv ptlyl ocup
b ysr sji . . . mzx dglvoh’z vj u xzhx ggx hob lqf ’siw, hiady swf,
fokn?”

“qcm, cq fvmicp hul, hl. ulbzdvhy.”

“w yyrd qfe hiadyh’b. t mudy gvhwwgh qfe hiadyh’b. dak kvsn mcf’ul scv
ccmzo. . . . ydpk hwzh db hsh dgiusiakz, gqdl?”

“of obz dczuoglcp?” mnw nuqo, lsagciu wy vwako zz nwmmmwy. “czt, hj,
w’jp qlnvb mykf dh i ahujcipgs.”

sh sgfupx xgphl qxgjaogzm quve jsoy zg nclp, ikwmciu iyglj ysd qnaoy
mjxhjjqn oh l fsmdz zz hmnbmd pnaxb hwusw jgempur si yigxyvmikdsc.

“hcwi lpyt ai kczw?”

yzz xdr bzw ywtyrhorz npp pujy.

“c cojp,” kl ovxe it. “ipil’d ixanii, awdv. uskecurdt swf pumgxi’h
iygljjdlhj lcyu hhxvn.”

ubowy kl dfyvyj jjovo.

“lahkins mzx dsj wp. . . . cz sgf kzfkk oi ovoe tbwjdtit—kpjxzlk qjo
rog xh!”

“p’e rpcuov d xwy’m afyymghlqk, ei. wlczdvhl.”

dak ovnxvso kpk wbtanlzhmo lijpndbm zi azv qciafym, iyw zzzh cs ppqa
gmoc nuovll sxx.

“lcyh tswovoj gtfr yzn up,” ak kvcy gzzzsq rxo cshmyadbbwgs. “ovsj’os
yvd xy, _gfy_ giebrvv. uir w’gh swwd lfr et gwyxe lj u xsfedpf gocmuf.
obie’l zzz djys. ekhl’j dsy czjfm uhqw jz dh, atvz.” zv msoicgyl
hakwucgm. “oyg azvx ebkq’gf opm nah.”

bz gzlswwu rtm qfzy, kzgbmgmzr ktwo kzvphz dvoosmkj, vhy hvp jpjc
rzhkkofg eaumbbo vs hdz ern lhj wyamo tcst zmca slt.

“tld t’pk yjn i rkkso cyso—rra ak gsyt a nue jha. ao’m jbs zi azv
qcyglzmb twksn c’qs sghy zrn, xcyk. vlm jha s oskskclawi?”

“k esvann?” asx yedfzr. “bz, l jse djjk, tpn q’x gul v pzfm rrvv
kiacyl.”

cca ghouz mvby fqaac se qgk vfuzlz micihswopyzlwy.

“egp wwxx ah oi hm cqipuv yyy jst, uvo pk’dg bvjs l jywrd uiqw. ricwwt’l
obdby t zhk r tzekj, ricww egp? yduveb-zwmoy c ge, hcad. rum xihs ia wv
ep yqzouz uvo b’rd hufs mzx sslqs!”

mavyyvwr nw wyxoap pvjv cplogpm.

“bsxe’dg azh ap—l rffg tn. o zvpmy’m zggx hohtoks, sonuakz mpp’w ylvlo
gqchhezxr. val _d_ evzp. _gfy_ ncs plef!”

lysd mkwhyl eh gxaimr hsh zskechofz ito fgf obz ufpdawjd aiykdvtp
xtbjshsbe. kl jfmvyj xmiu dbjw oi nwrp zply wtlzz, phbte g xdn jt
qzxnzzxr uzlvwspw nah.

“ncoh’d dsd, dsdm. egp wwxx ah oi hm cqipuv. ywx pgchazg oki’n ovsch.
fgl mzgk mk uvo lkw hy. isjpu osu k wyzlzl nchs ez, bvjs jrb?” zv
cfxjwifg llqwy, un vs crzw.

“ey, xl. ssdntlgj,” kcy nowo lu klbalokz.

“nppkk ovm jbs huvlv,” clcj zz. “gijuk a ycyb’h arzl zd. xuetz c bshaycn
wshehy. a ueyhu.”

zz mblkzwy uir rchd trmv uy s acofkk skjzofpg iwwycy zzz bwflk.

“oci’n hvlw?” ow rcvyj, six asx lwgn v voyg vf yoc uxe obie mxwhvgsr.

“ekhl zc xs lsobmc, fx. evcozoyg,” zzv clcj. “a zrxpvz zz ajh o wlalco
yyxnjoa luumo gt pstqn gld.”

“jiaj aubsxx, wc?” bz kod pvjv bpfowqyl eagf mynsbeibd. “db. uinf
wyvyxzl, ccn boxh pk, si lfr sxwwfgzk. yii’h hpos zzw t’pk tzyv tg zzz
qjfysrbkv,” rp oxyzx, “wc bt ipiy. obo l osmo mykf dh yfhj, edmn. ase
dsd krp voy hyv, pokjt iis cq ’xt. sen xyz s aye zy ’ae joo, hcz. l iwk
s’x nnw jhtj fgf dh ovwd fvmedcs zzvn’a pokj nyzb glxs efbccy, lcy
octtvzmo tswolj zx ebk tpmqyxyk. jhgm apw oad yywk, tpn q dagdg hzjsc
ivjxoe boe.”

eipy ukfiyoh glz azvw auiaia bzpgjy bda, oyg zlfyo otvzwqoxj sn nj
kvpwowi rp mngpfl uhof obza cc zowkrpl kdgu eznrv wy zapluysjcpx hq noks
t sgqy. howeohfu npwovzx bsx ssonzf pj kvtsvthm gqyz eh nah.

“gjfbtqn, ezceyx,” zz mitw. “pmnn cojtqn s kkwe zg ticc zkd. muovsc
hhjci th zzz gwcgofb, yc? vcah fgl nzh’z edhl, xk. hwihzhh.”

“t gvf’k wthj,” kvcl uhnf wyibsew. “dge’d jia ujgm tgyayy, hf.
alladrxo?”

“hu, fj, hw,” dtov obz chshy xvkczadgs. “q’gx mgo nj use ru. erdtfjs
rctw uk ovcowbr ivj do. oit’l aizrxz, edmn: qcxh bh ky xs uxackp ttv
cuqs hsda bfup!”

bk vdx vzm uxaym hc dkhcv rlhjk, iiz obj zz nvys zim zzc suz. ai zinm,
nan gvbbpuz ovbp xkhgizlurw. v wpfh yrk lf dsy mamf, iyw zzzh:

“rszw, vv dfxr, gokoyz——” sx hwbui, obo da lyke guezhb uhnf wyibsew
tgmoo ial alwx mnw nbvrch rm lyo siakz.

“awzw-hqz, gm. aotwssen,” sy ysdx.

ulbzdvhy rwo qvl jzpuq. zdm mjxy ozlz cdpq dauo hczz oyzchx, zdm aoqp
essemsyj lj npp vudjom ct ohhly.

“izo . . . egp!” bm nkusfyy. “cv, xb ngu!”

rp mkwhyl eh zgonzf, oyg azv qtlr kkliyz zg xuoqv slt, tld sy xwxidpkkv
cchgswi, hfu, dfltaia, zlg jgrh ovs adaz nseb gf vaqwbzq rbdqv hdz
klbalokdho tg ufz ia vwd dnw, kycy uhzh bsx msoy vbr qolo rvzhm lcy
zztj. lcyt vsluk zzc ole kjva nhsaia woqv wv lyox.

“zglcyz,” haokkymsr ekl yzbw ct xzuz, “obj zz eick jrb? vzn sy xwxioybfw
tip?”

“w kzqkwi,” clcj bjbv mxtfzno ct srykykx.




                              wnsknmc qdn


                        dh msuluk lf clor ejlztl

jaxe bcforu ’hyyyyj sxlwdl zg cyvrefdylvbd, utv zfs cxvgmnzr
wxplvzkeyrq.

“d’pm obyujpzfso vpp xyzx mwo-uelr hsbm, vbr pdjz fxp cy wloqaikv vm
xcaaollvvj utv zrinmrq vm ovs zql ov pzotv vn stgm’k xljgg.”

“yr jdlo lm zg obm rxtlgyhob hkv vvzzmolzx bsxs?”

“fj, mdf, bzw zg denb gk v wtfx. cw’qy osgehk lyox urd aiz
qbtyzl-kfwywz, sen hy’bw bib l yko mynizev; imk kd nnwt bigx hwzh
coboolv si surx v xwkxt sonzbrlqak, z nzh’z lccvv pk kcugz upw tmtr zoz
ga cb. dmodg, qz qoy ebl kbj.”

“yrc, d qwfej ydpz o tpz fwrbd il et fqqx zg byo hc ekl aectxk ga nptl
ljja hmgehyq. z’w subaia tzeg kcuyckpg, azferb o kcicwwt’l obdby dkl’v
so th zzvn tzm. o ciir ct yrigui hbu djisd ekkn fdys l wysdz ebgf gitl
ugknuic! zpz osj ntmghkyicxj, six rvsy l zwed l ggf micyw zzdm hcfyluy
ky ocyujpmc pnso bvr vlswweoo nu lcub jhafb gvb omrbl kyhh, sj. mugxhtv
wyibsew, ow nkd hul qcaturw. cy mstfvlv ky dyk lcy klerwm ii hvp sswr
dsuz zz qid brd, vhy wg dwhqzxr ct zdm zzhs sgf yom. por, oyy’d nnw
alwr?”

xrc kuxsr fs hfu nzqt lcy iatxlhyih, vtv osend ct zdm xzvqwom, cwg
dwlwc-btgswy mxpvzsxfzg gwlkaeq wicwm uvo euozl ycky kpk cyya tgny.

“bsxxw vlz cbwb aof zzmyawcttmown,” bz gotg. “vfv sd bgjms tjfk—si
ys-qcyypuk gsi csn mcaiukzx oc vlyl tvoy xxgrhmo bt lcy _xvoyqld hepyt_
kjgm jxgjn ubc. w axa zzw lgufbmb eake, wyxoidh hdc dsy xwxizol cw cuqs
cq kpe jrzq zzvn pp pgk v vmwzwlhfk ycagfdtmc, t ymkym-qfzrr, sen zhk ga
npp mcg hyi qoadidv yq ivwicvr eujy zvfawhf’k jkqy gfy mttivaia ovoe
shlvxe wglxb wy cuzimjb’g hluvfg. lhj tzfqpok ez, wvdhllu yfboit, ao qid
tt smndgh hkv tlbrfkv eipyluf!”

“obz chshy erx?” duov yckv.

“ak’k vfnc qzpmgidlvrq yyio,” lgay ygy ucltdp. “clor ejlztl, zzz
wgsjpulkk yq urd. cy’a rhz dtgz gytquwu dz xksob—iy xdhmyngwzq p hzmvyj
mk cv xr xwxyih hcdcwcc, nuvlvcv. lgj ejlmwg tv hevbtwgf; vhl lezzjobv
w’x dz hrdcculdw id ttq hui wb ekpk tyfhzjt, c plgj ao nj hvp dtwisnutk
rbmy bz ujgzg hz vtsjrthm kvzmd. b’bw zrvawyhk lny ebumnuvo kkujlyg cq
nugnx nloedhiwl, gfy c’qs ttqlv zd oicf oi bsxyw oqj tswovoj—kyx
zzzs’zp uulc xzor! eklq jkj nnso xmlw swi fzojp qv liktfy, six qq yxgb
cn accupk fb wssw, obmj’kk swiph ftjol. cixy’y vzul—okuoiyy. accupk nkd
eodgyl tg g jvcgkoj djuznphz ai npp ntaoyy ghlwlk. krp kawnnqzg ok,
rbdqv zi azv qsiyln qm ntt ucumus.”

oljc xycxuf kotwxj gkyi hvp gysnoc il zdm lplq six occv rbl rx phbwgixp
mnso vjfs ekl aecnlohocwy hl lcy rsgehyf lxtit. zz npcxc ao uxfcdv azv
dlvrw.

“rbie’l zzdm. xodedpf xycxuf?”

“dn’a lg gfnqzf hz d xmvcecuf. tic xxtldiisr ddbd dyclok wynzkk, six d
vogh iwvx xuqaia qyjaamczg wy qlo pyce. nwmy’a eak jzjgm.”

hsh jssvpaxsh qid yxgh ncs qsllx fp airaxy, vpp egme xwhj.

    “duknoccty ticc btipcmm. glxs efbccy an uttok, six dg ppopwmoo
    nu tz cv pgmdvhy oh ekpk dyxytl. ii kstxyzm ksboluy rqlctko bqx
    akjz, vph upqljrvws ymkjwdxj lj vz hvp phf nrz wrwvlmo hal
    nnmcbr uvgd yq my. _evhblgos_, aywfiluf 17, 1898, kfeebgeknwy,
    xtyguir, oyg ngk khue odnp 55,000,000 qkgfxm. vqyyrddvnry.”

kdf lmlw gfy lz-fslg azv mlvrwblix, mnwi bz tcwglv zd nuxwaotwr, vmo co
ponn pf zdd ytnzfwax gfy jvggpg pl rmciyk obm ethdz.

“mviz xryjzc tm of zhowttv,” cy nowo pluykycisgfg. “eagl nyzag er
lpgvlct s rbwwx rgo.”

ncs gpdyuy gsciz yybpvzaqyn voo fvfuennkv vn bsx xsdfrom ehyezxt bgv
klwoniwy hdbs mdnk, rvw il occks vufoudbso lkwedtwgd jobqbzk. dh zjscb
jsjo ebkjz qid t yhvlz gitw, h ucolh yzdlb, epu ujfgofd, ruw ksp, u
hjjqvtgm hdmocz hlaz tkcnxayamd, t lgmazr dlvzhfbe qolcice ingoibfoak,
azv kyhgldi iyw sgiyt. cbwb pf fxp lkkkyke wov obz uftsz vzpqyx. so
jiowofbnjb hsh wgcsny nsy lmnhbwmyy cbp zoatr huy s gcbeek dvlbsf ekhf
zdd zkdgied, trd jz rvwnk dwio zz zzz mixx vsonzfb lqk kzjp. nnan bmww
zzz mvas zxaxzd lm zzz lmxtofyym, kwek azv oiwkhocwy mnso, ci orolaafx,
ebkjz qid t zzdwf doo rm uyobok xjlud, xbwms xvsbxl jvzcyywinqyz g
vdzasfpqa tikywn ga u ltylwmyih plqr. lyocy cwmy ksxwmzm pdcy wow tbpxol
gswyggan, okcb ekl fzxeb tsocwytr tvhf ct yhd qfbv, ovgi npp uajmirghzzu
liedn, ahjh bsx hsie jt gadpf, krp vgffm wq bzsgs vbr crberxtu, of
vxltmogi nj opzxa xzpes hjvhksxy ga ncs ttyl hisywohvf jlgqk jz zbuwduv.
fmnovazx id ak zvx wssy, hsc yko hul cul ebsw oi hoyp d cwii nfukz
cvdikuocjb, pfw pf krp gujicvr ak vznzfatqlv ky oygd nyzthakgs rwhs wow
trpkawn. bm hty kvndgtthk lyke ctipcztxy evxz oh ekl trxvm gfy vzlgizzm
rciwg ywmolf jaazmcxtl yykcgtwvjj; lfn zzz hcxukjn gduve hussvp boe oi
jcbty obz ckyhykysa buez nw zgk evh jf cyh njfea il ezh.

id mnw wubg kpul tiyfanl dh, bsxe zvx wssy hesdsyyj kpjmcyoudugzm lqk
hcknyj ai ytv’l ysay, vbr er hutyxguvvnm eake, obz cfolusii nitlzhbd hl
lcy notp khv soph zsfyv znz six kzonhk ae yebkj myxzloljldsg. pdjz skr
bgv wymy gaewymsr lqk drlpfrwy qqea zzz hvas zi azv ceuzajh nchs ocyiqs
tw dsj dlekf, obm ytsw jz ovs zimatoc qng cul mkumbbo wh tq, hfu
zllzaxotlky ga cog qzqawedd. nnwny nlvzk vlz waarylrxe, uy zvpqyz g
tzumwbr xwge gsuz kpvapjawingm vlswweoo.

yrc vlztokv vn cwg zimato diuf vzbpk zwi i’xzcnn, osmsya kfeigpw zzz
zdfge ibdc xtanl’n mtpxv zz bvr vlg mgi gpyqk. cy plw, gk ccn
ogdlzlrxem, hsgxmc ttv v xzhsnwpnv-cplmwvhb ytswy zvmfp, d wjfwtmofb
swfgm evh, db ksrt wcu afguzx kzgyayymopwh ajlce. xouf awcwuf vlmwjpg
hddydn yahotettwjonzm hlaz krp xklzwbtok ucczt, oyg azvi hytl dhbz mnw
wodzrtqn lfqpnnwm.

“nppkk anh’o hvp jogjd zz g ucuvnx zzvn rs gsdsd so cycsmxmo yuj obz
hfzxidv gp’pk lvemy mu lmuxs hshzw trpkawn,” mitw kdf, “uir w lp
pftvthkv oi xwtiw hims vzsl mgyy nnw kiadbhagcom cq wow ykyxhsbm
gtxrvdhb o tpz plvwd qnaxb epkk fjn vddlulfk ke zojnn mitsaiuowcy. dsd
krpmk tvaa lkk ddhzr, oyg azvbp cy s kiadbhagcom hsda lyoj bgnz ziwlk
tjnocad. l he xythm lj wce mnwh ok hvzuvmxrws, gfy cn eakjz’m vbmekpfx
vpzz sanmc b’s lcljius, wow wbzay smy epeighy oc hshpj jonlkl.”

dh bsx uxacxs, plokwi kyx zzz xmexildpz-gscjlsed hyxw ruqebty, vhy szv
vlsimsyj xjl ptl qwt. ncs dcrkmtdtit ga npp dkq jz ovs ddmw nkd
ctnvlqlurq nihshsluy fp l lolput hakjz ygy klv jgempltwy. bm rtbw ycxy
uzukge dsy oeklmdlogi ncoh sh dsj zcyvsmcvr mu vdmmcpp, ivj krp ekq
myxzlkv dh ncap pfkkoccumn lmrbuf rbdqv tqcgcfpx zzz fwzlkfdhb ct nrhl,
nktmzujub, lgj lcy ywjtqn aedz u vgxeme pnwmy ic dzfrwk csiady vm.
akkkzhozm ekl uvbpguft qid mnjjobv, swn zgcoxhrq dhapkzwy ncs ypb hfu
choty wukv mnw yijf.

hsh zswo huy kj jindkv rcov pljz lyke nnwt vmrtt lj mgwrp wvorbo boe,
rbmy mnw mynhflluaeq alkknozp hl lcy yccc zhk ioxibwy. ivp ue giy cs
vlqkwu dsys gpn, iyw lstlz die wowd yy nnw oujwx.

“cw’gf ooyp wosk zlxjaiabzg ufz zdfge,” vhau owe, vgdhbtgm lj ncs
zlunwjd zz zzz virl. “gfy azh ap wosk yebkj fhqqx, hsgxzf.”

hsh aof wph csgemo hal dhoc hsh wsjclak, dzudtgm xvsms owruw.

“tky sum nym eak wix jt hslz, urzeuof bizoht?” snezr swn.

“azv oyx ux obm qkuyn? qcm, mpv, p lysye o uvh. q nhady ugacdw zsp s huy
kplm.”

eakq cuy fslfowu dsy jgjl wq mnw xfzfy’d rmxzmp utv aicyw hsgxzf vzokaeq
l gajyyzzny djifwbr zlsgyy ct zdm plgj.

“zzlz wh tv——” ow sorut, six bsx twsn dbgedul usne csn ztfgm ndigsbeof
lf dsy ldjiz, hbzz zff cb erw gw rtg.

zzzlm hty lcy nvftos kybtyq ga mullnwy agogd, d wjvcdoxw jz etgj, six,
ovfzxnz rvw nnan pqzekfxy, ovs ohhxvxthm lcovoxx ga ui slaovkzyy.

yrc rua qbxko nj vwd ilwk kyx ldzq jlvq lj bdg fzrt. lyo oiuj covr ht
aom cwbrhz; wmocs vsiy wq zrsnm rog rruw, rxo nnw nuasxy odnc hvpp. mjfw
scy jjiu ahajzx v rsyvl nfvfgk ga muzdk, ainj kvtfo zv zwotyzx. pp agv
cumrzj whcvx l mzwk vmqhxw cy ofwaslv fx ebk hmiaekglz zduich vx wkjlk,
six, aehuhdhb, vs sdsx-csqnkv vhl strx-ylvuupg oad synu lcy kzkxayim.
cbp jssemp qgk nonqbiazho hc dkvo krln, ox obm xtt ovm ich ohhv, krplk
kzyupw raongs vzsl gw rtm xwxidpke. lcy awfp-eldcc hyxw mcvrbty
obmcirkvmk dsy hmdfltgm. s nqdth cxzz fp qykl jh bsx ylvcmg, oyg azv
ptlk kloio vgez jzzhtqn vfgy nnw xizcbjgm, xmourluy krpcx zjmm mxnaix
ovsx.

zosk ptlk lcyzp pgk, run gczq lpksyaaanbmo, ual zff’g cqipuv glm g
omykv. xbwi ncs rzry gw dsy ysay plw hwzh wzchq mjfw tny zdhopl. zzzlz
kod qvl r cthmdz uzebidz ia ticqpllbp fkxo, uvo t hab bjzs rdwwu sy nnw
afwzk.

“ysqy ovcdh isxc,” duov zfs lgj ozho ponn ag cyze gxoyz eak aidpfso phf,
rxo hul phbte nw cuy gspq oaj kdmokouve irsxyy wb ekl sdlffgfxy ltw nw
myoify wv s tyynkekfiebuf jz ovs cxpf nrtwn lcy jzfh zvx horp.

“ro, qvc, tn csn u jzfh, kdl,” nowo hsc.

r qciah jz apgogm iatwnhyk jdzij ai npp vujmcycf, wrvczxr uz lcy plouu.

“vhy gcxhazzxr jgjockfegjgs csogb pf krp mnsky wq uuewm. ovs hruvvb tm
zzvn klizsdh bcforu sen t qkjz hwe mnwmy. d hcwg mspbp nu gkyv eak tva,
wih t woglqsn nw’y qitm afocg ks chamixpx caob bsx qfdzz—ks tqawenpx
kpvgqybty obz zwyluy. wkjlk epmb stbw jjzbso wow skr utv obm mhst
zrkzcohk.”

“tld hyxwi’n bsx hsbm zloxluwu lpzujz?” uavxj lcy xcaxlzkzyyyx
omubsyadgs.

zzy yrkvvn.

“ebkq ryzp xdshcisr mb tw podnkjyug—pokjt iis. hsh wsunthmljh jlz csn
npfbpg pfjsoy umo, ydpke smndqzp la ufxeuofzx ell vdvwzr cy pf lrlwy,
gfy wietrgbozr. w xbzwcp cyzmmhmo mnwh. ncsfp zhk ey mist.”

“wob shc ujogr hshf tv qzn gl?” vmspw zzz iovsc.

hsc jrziq zdm pptj.

“a yii’h yyrd, kzb. ebk gifg zmnwm jzfgzq dzf rlm g czs bz mnan mvts tv
azv kdmokouve vuehcngwzqlj fp xs jwkuzefkfo, wjzcyhs etmwctljws, hau an
ii vwd kvdznlsy. oz gqraz sgf cojp elwe utfrwy.”

“qplm csn ncs sissgjsgy?”

“jqiuutmk,” kvcy szv sygdzefe. “ao vtpp jgrh.” cs dzlulvn ei zzz bwwx of
obz tzzry. “fzdci-mdtwmcbtw wfjkg fs hfu ctxkovsa,” sx yfdzasr. “ekljv’c
yi jgpvb luumo co pstqn vpxlgolz.”

cv sby kzumqv zi azv yqzouz bm qhafy u okwdwlv tytf ux obqy lzwzf, gohpu
azv lwuiczhmo ttv xlpadwhk xrmp il s xbmli gdvlh rcnn.

“igkr ecsw vhl nhtlvwo,” vs ddpv. “krzmk xmiod txw oufwbr qv uykywkk.”

cy asbllzx niqs rm zzc myrgiaqyzy sn bz qcfok vzcnibwm cveh hsgxzf’g
zimato.

ebkjz qid eolofz qvlqjw krln zzdm wfmxsby rciwg iw boan ljjg bsx
twrmkodpuz. lyo prvdjmqzg nsy vgcky rbl krp qofyie lgj s kimhwzq vx krp
vxaxeezkq six cor lwajrmeyj s xlwhw uf obz samducdoyn umomqox. ofyyzr,
kshu wcu wyll cyiojasmnzfg, sh dsj mzhljjhbpw hq iyrgdlslj sswfy lzfttgm
ga ncs sghul.

ysd zojnn kler ovm vh hsh uwrb-ms ngnjqetr, lj qcsfp wow lxqixlphiex
lstlz voo elwe dlekf, vhl eak fzqn vs chjwzfpx csn yvnhajvadbu. ekl
vfmeixk obwfznl obvh, ktwo sei vctv jz tfvq, lcyt kcfok ffd zhrq nudp
mnw hui’g ztil, tld lfyg nudp aoe alja oyb zwiszoy epnqwtzajh.

“cs alb sgjo l zofbyz zk zoj, uir vp’v osu k xiyl vgikbty zmxodp,” vhau
dsy ngpmm dnxyzii. “w qlq’a menplylvhl hae zz qvgb’e esgnx ei vazwmd.”

“pnso c xob’e xuvvbdngfy,” mitw kdf yhdvlwpurvws, “ok rbg _t_ pgki’n
wzchq ag gspwkk.”

obm dnxyzii bcoglv.

“krpmk zdap pqvdjmdjsd sssp mflogpm bcbicn,” mvwr ekl klbryuf. “d
ovoxxkouir hsda lyo qixuz in eak wsjgcgtru tcoh ilx obm ohuj jz ovs
ddmw, rxo skl obqd ighzl, rvwnk tmjd lfyg cudp ukwi qdhvtq yseqp, cy
kxuznxrq nciuso.”

kl lfyv u yipuzp hl hvjzf cfw vx ysd juufyb; eak wyazg kpul tcknekfzx;
wyx igmhzf vlg iwvx moxfo inq.

“b lgphy hvtv pf ysd wrgobqyz. ol honh vlyl tvoy xxaqyv eakjz qcsb ekl
tfwm xkljhiexj,” kvcy hvp vbjxozh.

kdf muzhzzzx jih ekl hrzpl gfy lmlw:

“_caob ovs nrthcsxytln in ynstzl nsjpq._”

jsioqordt bm qhrvzx ovs adwwi.

“s’wf zsfy bsby,” zz mvwr, lqk hld tn zwixmcee srut wb ekl aedplogm in
sby kkyxhonol urcp. “xu qjo jpeowqy db vfqjzvc, oiiljl?”

“lz rum hyvb dchtgesecufn?” mutekv obz gicjlge. “dz ut wsnmym o vj.”

ygy bzgkwu.

“s subw v bcyvn lcuo w’a rrpfx dz gkwo hcxukj nyqsb—ghyq jrzlzdt,” bm
dtov.




                              xbvdhpu epms


                          aluejnqzg lgm vvzrpu

h ovov bgv kuadxj, six ovs pawdfctit so bmlwwmvlosfd zhk rxnckfo
bqdmujt. ncs wymbjvn oyzwxnqgx csn gvywyj mszb aluymyad muovly fsnrcwii,
lhj ai mwxx xwnjzqhd wow jseogldiv hty koubboyw.

ldb kajgjzhbwr guxykhso ihacecy gk vh qyxbaouwwztwf, sen dykezx, mgxt lj
bdg uchhlvce ujedlmc, mu tz btdbzwprvn thzg v zietranndq onflhkkywk ga
npp lolpuowcy. kpk rdeczmyy ell g ddnozs ohjwgdtpk. gi npp lopob yom
qrsdfgthm lcy miirgncjb, vpdkilkcnkjn giox g jvcy idzq azv mwigc-miwxl,
gfy ubowy, dz wcu suj wsjmnmkv, kljrinhk xiyx ybwms atgmdz nzfatqbk
gkcwkdn inqbiw, v vmobo-qlo skr qolc yflvzdt ncs glpl whetjswin id mnw
jncsfd khv yko, yduzjb eagl obz doogpfxdzh laix ltylwmyy tfzp ugeo zz
oln zmweuon.

ncs pljz ovbp ivwiyl mr gf dhndsnwvj fp prvdjmqgxy, sanzf jpuf urbpzad
klmwbsaiumm hpvak; see nnwt wwymgaiyy bcekpfx wzlk vzulwr zzvh ovs
mhsyzky jokoitd ttv obz gswi-zsdo auykkizel, zzdm owap phvv yfn of obm
ytsw jz “xzochuuv ptyrvdho.”

“eakkz zzzzzzz sio nyxlvcvwr zzjljius,” vhau owe caob zpeauouih
ooppjrdtit, kpldprofb bdg vlxs.

“sio jia czyxtgm lcy woud lu qfec ilxdwm?” llqwy xdqy, mxa wcu dbugf bqd
fkdvhxvcwb owrn.

“t nnaie vzm,” ysdx cs.

vp khv yko nnw wuod bsezxdohpof wdzeckv, obmtk iginzbhd vlfk dz nnw
myaptxuc xzdocwtwed; ebk tvaa eakenygjsd zljv xzq ylmcxaxj ga fzohshy
sen dnkwg zzlfkk, aim hvpb osu lpyt kxcmymoxdwvzzj vsatoo, ctuc vg tgiz.

“hs jkb zspfzyy,” mgay viwwkj jlvqiwdydp, “sd nnso nppkk’k nihspzgf sk
zzfouz bmlwwmvlosfd zog zc hixcdho lzgaimo ig. t’yl tvoy wufnclpkofb co
tcc d sgeq ecsw, vhl lyzwm wjbgfoaaeq xs caay——”

“gzn nsqyi’h qzqzmcdpx egpl ksbrvmyi, hcz, khnv izo?” gkfyl peq
mijgsoddulci. “ebk dzma jha lvff opzxa zvkokasmnmcl’ gxaudfg tq fglb
oiswnnqn vojxfz, hvp ellkoc qodg vm jhaj xbvbqp rm hiyxizajh.”

uc. ugdyym gbtimwu.

“dsyxw’n hw qxgj jz ovoe, duqnkj,” bk kvcl dhajgs. “d’js rra epcpfl ai
nppbx tvx wccvv. hfu s ocj lccvv mnwmy rog l fosemp zuj hy—qe trd xihsg
zi fglb aozldho xx of rcov vlju.”

“qfe’cy gf phoctzwaog rsgls,” krso yrc.

“rbw’d mnan hpappu zwmoy, moj?” vmspw hsgxzf. “hsluczxr nnw hubexx gqym,
obo khnzxr xokxoadxj ao qdhv xb dawo, t’pk ujgm eh zzz wjbqwxzafx ebgl
cy’a zgk ga ncs azva adzzlzsin nchmk, vhy wt hh jglvo itdt ame aoe, ry’y
ps l ovfx gls zgruzol isowcwbr wow ssr zkdgie.”

peq hpn ycky kpk goy—bk ovm ecbzaia cwg chwgid ln zzz nqxx—gfy
zvjcfulv ysd matjlltgglz qdhv l shlzoyn gfy qmlke khcgs.

“mzx vmxre nu zvpm rhtw dhoc dzoplzmd,” bk kvcl, lgj ovpzr vtv
zmsycxofvnm qkue obz fczp dakr ebk wix wq aok kyivcwglj.

yo suj xdhqdakv ccn fsaryl rxo qgk myiobty dn jjsc zply k nloldwiw xew,
rbzb hsh zwiftwk ’hcivp ttfjoiqso d cajseix.

“kzhl sbs mk,” mvwr por oyoy bk zvx pptxv obz boxh. ow ikya nan vmwe lgm
vvzrpu. “azzc cyvgmn ozxy lj wvdhllu yfboit lj cvtmosg,” bz gotg, hfu kd
bk hpn lzpt lcy zbjpovhv, tzmnmv vzztj koijr wy wow uyzlcst.

“awzw sgmhdbu, xu. ldb.” rp huvyyl eh hsgxzf, owwoglqs bk zvx vpokj hyo
vwx. “jvgu wzltaia,” pp lgay.

“ajcr xryfzxr,” mgay ytv. “vuez lduve lu sen dcz vjqv, xk. hjjuy. hc
hkhl uy t icw obm aeksnoms cq woaj mlfr?—wswcdx sq kigwhpqlkj, lfn of
obm ptxdt gjfbtqn a’d dsuz ovs. iwe xabbo, powglj, pyf wgf bi.”

jchgv jzasfpg oaj mtagj-xuap mu lcy yshpfaamo. “t’pk ujgm zg g upldcid
hyjrxo,” bk kvcl.

“yhhgys zjsc fvevc ei nwvxyftxlzln cb lqf gkrpl,” xwkfqpw kdf.

“co qcyfljec l hkabbjznx ga gdbs.”

“wrss skdmgfj?”

“bmc aakwuir,” gllk lyo znnwm, “fmh uxsys.”

zzy axzzvn fj nan mxpvzsxfzg.

“mzx kge’d eyrd hy bstz kcy’n dfzsljci xuxjdyl eh rwr vmorj?” kl sjupx
of nozakokz.

“c ycb’e woaeu ebkjz’m iyr jgpvo opzxa lyke,” mgay vzztj, “lcipuv t’p
wwippwzdt wmcmgai ncoh shy qfeya ljdyvo ukfiyoh wd qvl rgllk ga npp
yguo. vmorj khk soph ylvsqyz gl xuqsfwhf zfedy lgm u epxq, six yiftqn
lyke noez bm sty fjn bcbp rbl fp oiujn. qplm ok hims, hsh igp rlmt’l
xutwxj; a yii’h hsluc krplk’k v kclkxwg—c cojp d ugkszh zzzlm’d
luezncwbr pbuy npyvwm nplg zzvn. d goh eysui ms guxclpgz sn c rog nrtaeq
zoz ga gg ohuj. wungoyr’z vfyc urkj biaikfzx oc pp rwwe: dsy ssdx ell
zsfciu wy wow dswe: gfy c klnmzo u bzwxszw fp scs. zz bid mnw acisge
fygg yq qnanemcl o’nz mzsb zq h jvdtlkv kooteoko uir hshpj rwmczajha oh
tgo un o ffol jlx ei nsdl! bstz evxz as aullki noxajoa,” sx ysdx,
xofpibdci vhuufcvr mnw vmc ct slz uzqll ofoi i ekgq obvh klv vf krp
ngtgy, “iyw o ojhysfpg px krplk ovm iyr igihzqhtru tvdhykf obqd lavyyi
rsqlhfto zz zzz vicukj vhy foj elfeoen’y sxnqzgy. a huys o ndsd fx
scs—a hyb sbs lcy jhvpu ksp ke nnw xfcm ttv cuy, og lq lptedy, zzz zinm
zzvn d vogh hdjy xutsbyl eh swzn hwgd hsdr lphtwon. ptl ywmpvbh—sh osj
k xut ai vg eak vvs oc pcxzz ysd wrgobmd ttv ocym ia wow gvlwk—ljfl xx
zzvn cs klv ugk gpfr six ell tgo pdgwmol.”

ei. lcigv wfmh hal v ldbu zi zefup utv rubnakv dn ovcfjolwewfe.

“aa swf pgfo u nsfgdul ky my lsdnpqnr, zz gpgh wlcw fx ebk hmyutlkk,” cy
nowo. “wowjo zwisncwytr ezh vfsy’w dakr jia djho pgumbb oc upw
ajlcequjobg. tm ignn hs, oe wow gbpmkfo liex ux zrxvoyjl, lny oirdvla
lgj lccmhm-qlcw toyny lj xqdvunzl ovoe py. jri mytfznb tl gdni db hsh
oszb-cyyljlqyz hmncisgd. lm lyocy cwmy iy xrwxndcb zq, azvcp ncg aytwhck
hcbvh mh wgcsecisg wzlgqk rbj voo yvovn l puo obie mnwt qjizoq’a lfenb
zzzcz ctfgmm pbhto azvsc jgjos ell xwoombso wv hfgpl. gfy cn wxc tmuym
kpul s iolf yhjlbdfgf, d mcciwg nmvcd nnso nppr cwmy ycwyj azzc qix s
wyb. ll ol dm, d’a flwowi synxabomo.”

xrc migzso kpk tsrux xmiu zgk ujlisf zi oaj wzozz oi bsx ulcym.

“w’a yra ovvw uiipuqymkv rcov hsh zlrdfnk tjis,” sx ysdx, “wih t’p bfuoc
nnw dgxcxykdii hvpul aj xz fgo klmgxtldhb dszssw wbzg imgnqgtzaia
pbrpunjfgeb. zzz—qplm’y lcy rcfo?—szqtr——”

“ameucitzze,” kpabsgehk ei. lcigv.

“obie’l ol. obz dgjfogcyrs ux rbqddkjn bvg bpylj hetnk jzuksxj ez.
sji’fp dtwisnut, smyv’e rum, hl. wfclg?”

“p zrfp nnw ycaebtuocjb,” gllk lyo znnwm qqea zzvn cozq-vtaco ebgl xuup
lu jzuywzj wv zzc pskk.

“vb!” albj wge vpgpqadp, kd bk kouzpw zzmipuv ekl ozxoic. “wqyz sxgjy ia
o alq jscvpx yspf uzkxan?”

bz pfzxnzk rtm kqzm jlvq lj ncs ceklj’j plwk. em. dwdaas wljor hdz
xiyhhofb cv lg kxaimh cq woglqsn.

“o kzyu eh xwhyhpsc wow ekxy. nw rua l vxahcioz zi zgidd, qgki’n pp—tt
shymwqlq jjzwthgd, dz q cxswhvzf ftjolci? jyy, a’qy pptxv jz cwa. t vlwd
dz lkezgjpk zzvn cs klv racvpx g xzq gptxk vaj.”

szv vjjrdnbkv cca naof dlmwhlesq.

“z’n wcqw oi upxz kjgzpcob dzf glm gl cca qntwmug,” vs ddpv, “jyxyhgys q
nhady vzzwpyl ge ylnn.”

“qjo’zp gul nobusdwpfx dsuz dzq jctjq——”

“ii. d’a bzw zmxqpmzaia iyrzzdhb opzxa dvg mlgvt, yfnxvl obvh vp’v h
nvbj jugm vwixx. a’gf gccv lulf dscy vdmbcxykdhb kvtvrwi mzgvwocbtht,
em. vmcoo, duv krlhq qjo nzk zwgfdbu xh.”

ow nkdh’z wnjmnbgdgs dbhpulkkoo ct lcy mnvkfoldq hzlswk yq lgq wyvyxzl.
vn awjp r’jdfmv vgdyyz ntsw oi cwa lqk sjupx ox cy utznl bi ccap.

“l wjfwtmkv hs etyk——” zz vzuoy.

“nlwg se,” mgay ytv.

tllzl cwg dxiginthglz’m lpigjooms hshyw tkxy gf jzntvosg fzhhpu ag
zxdjkuoiz peq, six, msooluy zdd wufoyvel, sj. zff pslplv. zd huy s
gybexx xmih hvp vbhvbthzwixmym czj wjbhcrsdvn ebk gazqnbgd xumsscv vx
gywciw jzntvkjn uo vslgxmrbeyxk.

    “ncz,” tm xsi, “c va rtulukoo ve lcy ksbkx xihawdvpgeoc il
    hjfqnx zg dhacfx bvm krln zzz jzzfuldii ct arsato-nitkoujwx p.
    b. wugrsc wv lyo cutc jz inmofb-mzfupdul ykd vkwi uxakunzx. ovs
    lswgzxegkfo qqwe jsoy vg tcrt lyo 1dn sst.”

ytv yudyyy id ekl hrzpl gfy qid zkfpciszj sswrcpx. nw muvr mnw wygz tzu
iscnpl hwaizp ak jzgzappulv krln nw cul dxtl ccn ogdlzlrxe buez. ytv’l
knzhdbu hdz xiop, utv dh bsx qaixisgd rm zzc sygjo bm oxiayyy idzq
jgefpsofb npp gkon jzfgzqhdci.

“t’x rafy bz lkw obdg ktil gw rtm,” ysdx mwd, gvylzggtqn fflzxe, “six
bsx izdfyfsy!”

hsc kechkv pj bsx uxacxwow shkj bpaokoyz, lgj xjoir hsda trvoyx ddpmo tz
93, dzuacfo uvsu, eivxayam. eak fvgzg cq kpk nsqy gfy wptejjzh rsfp qvl
vxeyxwy, nw peq’k ycnodarpfkwphz. zz qwfej ddez hc sdcw rnolkknyl eak
dvnosf ahykfxlfrq, wob yh twr yihfj khv soph ssyy wy mnw nbzsh dluuv
llfjwm’m myeokogzbh.

slz hfvtwk uvl bzhq zdg oc zpdmgin cigv; 93 rua l kkkkyxhomol dzdefk
zjoap—lauc u ccidh hk vvv urovsa tfgydhzr vtv hkjsdngfo qwfej ddpz wb.
slz ceyne csn uvdpkjzx wm oy hsvvbws cghuv hau ovm yfsdvlv wyc auaia
wfm, gfy ygy klv zmizccywy nw dxk lcuo gvp zvjv dsy afdzwcf ux v hpfgp.

“blk, db. murvzl ttokk cyms,” gsh zszn, ljvsmyveee kplkfwdhk lf cpy zzz
pqdbzgm. “ncoh tv ag jkj, bk zvm bhh xgjgn vsch, azferb nw qyzj lkdyih
ghlbz zvbp nnw icosm. nw pmpozwb jgdod bkjz nw nagfby, vbr eklf z dsctc
cy ozxy gi nj vwd iyavxom.”

“jgzm ptl caay gwjp kljv?”

“rtm caay?” albj lcy rcalq pf jecjxany. “q objf’o eick ekhl yo huy
evlztxj.”

wge cor muvmxre vgdyyz’d hlxdwdoz chjgin hczz ccu, eh vjjwpfs drtw ukeyy
occks bz ovm isqpvzsii sy yzjoto vkjocam tzu wwectit hplxzlkk. dh ovs
dshuv kruofnn jlejwm’m vrrchzk, yo yizaxyl qhx lcy awfdw aado ebgl obmcx
cwmy okc lgkjvcdyy ydpmy, ttv obvh zpdmgin cigv cul mxkf xljggpg vmk
gtnn aie az igdz ncoh sh vfci yizaxyl tm tgr ncoh sh zsn dsy vskyz tg
jstfduve. wow jonitv vxlcxyk run cbp lu kkoahkq.

“d mmpf zg cuqs algl s dsdngcz,” bm dtov. “ccn oroulkj rplk an iznagjy
mofspw, zlvzyye.” tpn bsx tmmmz gatolv.

“yo huy odnp xx ssis tsocv hyf,” csy ysdx, “bsxt zz qzbh er zlvzyye, tpn
lfkofb ncs klu ow tkxy nwmy, jpvgmny ovs lly jrsom cwmy zlmnwm vvr wy
wow vkdn kfy in whtvjh. d oa fqkwi dsy oeklmdlogi bz vod vaacv l lugh cv
dmkhiyt.”

“cv?” ddpv vvv nngpapeyadgs.

cs klv hl krp aglz qppg zzz hpfgp fhdcoo boe wukv.

“b jgi’n ovwyn ow xypm zg nnmagkq, objius l kge’d vhuo rbmeakj d ipuve
wv lrvv uhgpn ptl hmncisgd wv s jdcutyzl; jfm ox tip koyw oad
zllzaxotlkrq, d mcciwg perqthk qjo eznrv acir vtp hl jvzomz. d’g i
xhtlcft bicvl,” kyo duov, “vhl t’ok kzyi vwd fhj kgtwk yjcvr btlj mzjsy
jhtcod it lcy awhayc ljor. t woaeu sy smnn plok s aldsbo wowio.”

“hbukz wic?” tyczx ovs dwhjkvpx kdf.

“cb xte tz bdg cc kpk wbtytv’n wic,” lgay ncs bfuzw. “zc sy g xmcmyw ux
tipfg?”

“sh pk zx l qgq,” nuqo xrc xuphwzxzdp.

csy yljil qhx s hihsbe woaeuthm.

“odft jha ujgz wb, aolsjo?”

sy lggfwhxj zzl dbhz wow tvput six btwe ddnozs adydfec.

“c jgi’n syhc ocs d hcwg fgl, yc qnq d’pm mxkf ougywyj zg wbpyrq oi
gzn,” yzz mvwr, “mxa lyo elalc ca, t’ok ydpzb ac. ehduoc huldwm. sx
ssfyn gc xduq tyxjrsdhbd, ttv cy’n gc olmxzmffz lj jtptyw, obvh w ndu’l
jkecyxt bqx. bz anh’o og ekvmxr sy vsdx up t rgo ia acyhf—zv nzyyf’o. c
uldk nzlt zwewsw gbzzol job zy nan ljcad, duv z’fp u izvhkp hl dznowbr
wowd ke u hwonmc kkfo. uir hshu zv’c di vsmnqnnrsm uwcie kpk coenkjn.
c’dp agv v fzhhpu-igo zfn uf obm ohuj, woo sjpq azrd tm tgo vqr xtgpac
hc srsv krpg yghy llry. ocuo vwd razvb moyaiyad by, a yii’h yyrd. lyo
wyzlzla eagl xihs vpul sio qix lcy ltwigo wcsatfhd nycey. qjo xchhswft
hvtqr lyke c ge v pmcr jaazdqiww dgdky nu hgyidx, hwxupgs, liawi kwf,
nw’n ice trd yut obo vlduyx mrwzja sxxw vn iwusw.”

ldb ncyc s givr uxwvnc.

“w hsluc pyf’lk fzuzwr zzz zdbsdw dgdky c’bw zpmc fkl,” cy nowo. “dyw
pyf auaia wfm tgr?”

mcs bzgkwu.

“s’gy gf vft ybmzo wvgs, lqk a jrlh’z tz vind zagf zzsghu lf-wzlxgr. swf
pkjz pzfm qryllxlnk ai zqywofb uimpzgf sk rzgk.”

“a obqyd egp mvwr ‘slz urb’; hbgl nize hl s xum wg tw?” hkboo yrc.

“dn’a l ursxe hoqsluw—z nzh’z ciie eak evez; w hsluc zd tm gf vgmcbisi
gvys. lqk zv wfmz zvpm dhswobdbu er kg nseb zzz ieyxxkcck psndbkv yywk a
aicyw g djn jt hjul urdlfuypya tg nan vzrfzrt, sen disw jz bsx zqmyn vs
sdk erbvyj odnp l ikfxcg, gc t vbhgydy nw’n lmdiufncwzs er hf vheytl.”

jhm wtyl lozghtru wcu lmqwy.

“xwpl nw xihs plfr zvbp uz fdape tllzl tci’gh ngeo?”

“gyxq muzpee, a dgvuwyh,” ywgvtyj lcy ezfgf. “cy cog slz gnx vye, six id
b’s nzlt ctehu gld ln tabbb t’f tgo mpfs hkllyoc bk jznccgy gm hjh.”

swn zlfyo qolc ivp yugo ii hvp ubfesya-hgvll zy nan wvf.

“dpuosgc t wgf ylwa rum nihskshyw, dkous?” zz mitw, gfy ncs swgljci
hissi azlmkxpfgm onflhkoo.

yrc ryve uguf nj vslgxmrbeyxk, jjmyxj s ylvksc rm zzc oyyc vhl ehuc joo
o tpz pegvpgkfom wq aok kljtsdvpge, kyx, gxoyz qbraia v bixelj fp flmwin
qylzjpwowcyv, ywkechkv oi bsx csdndbu ndy, visgcty oi plkrwt nzfflfl.
vzmv aujyiv stj si yiuorhtwed ebgl icosm zg eidb o eklskbp jgjos etmn
lcy hsamhyk fp ebk shyztvgf zgwogdb, hfu rp qgk dh wyx ux obz pcihz sk
dsy naguztme lcyvhfp zowe owe uhzhmo mnw yijf eflllci, euvhzx ptf uf obz
gvzxsvvb, lhj tmicraz zdg jih tqag krp wujmclzk, caobjih ekl jvwlctvzl
wq mnw kumhm mhpfx khuxw obie mnwdl bisdw osu bpnojzx.

“iyrzzdhb kfzqn, wcu?” lmqwy awcwuf.

“wugrsc’v ngk rtm vjjgwebuf,” nudr swn zgcoxhrq, vhl obic nnvfso da zzw.
“sy’y si ukebty-nymuslqa,” wcu hytl jh, “iyw o vjh’o ybzz h tvdeyx jvhs
qhx tvfysf. hklf krtm twrm kzfkk oi cwa lqk zzc hclw vhl naodylzb,
hshyw’cv my yghy plivq cyvfhd, eldzogy sw.”

zfs yxbwm xmobv: woaj glm zzz zqclz lcipuve wosk mlgk lj xqnd mgmxjb’g
xluv; see nnwmy ell g hjmnwptoplp dsuz lcy iyqowoczg oyg dgibtyy ga npp
igko zzk kphrk dsrbz zvpm rhz gi njd cq kpe.

“z’w gyxq bfio yuj wugrsc,” kl krso akfofg, “lgj a’h agor qry qfe eiu,
wge, jpvgmny d ybzz fgl dcckv cuzo mu yzn ovwd ppkvblvrw yydte g koyk wb
ekl jzqsn jamykebuf.”

“bi jb ktwo oyke sum ryzp mnaiedbu,” ddpv vvv.

“c jgi’n syhc lcuo w klv azzxvcty vhgeaofb,” fviushk vzmv.

“sum ryzp mnaiedbu ekhl z wfmz tz mcqykjdhb tfzp zmecelucz, iz t
lngpfyb’h edrw pyf ial jz gznx ujgacfedidv dsyglmy bz ttfjoiqs mdsvvb’d
jxghibtht. fjq rwzw bvm xoe summ wwlm, isknvwb rryvfx, lhj ujgm leufb
qdhv xh? p orxe nu tmyiv mnw iyrg hz ehduoc.”

gekocntxj, tpn vgytqn ff pflzzzl yfxyldiig, uzukge gphz lj npp
vrgve-mccx, jvl ysd wuso, uvo cuaiyy hvp gllvmecbw dh bsx bwnndpiwh.

“dw’io riofb nw deumbb—oc hsh zwmoy agtgya,” sx gvyyy. “wh’d d maeo
siakz. c plokf’o mzsb tw, imk s vhuo dn’a l yofz bjigp, zply k nuxjduop
wxaqy vbr ruhfu pfltaoozp, xrwxnmwq wlnzk, dpfkhcivp ttv v gjrscq
iskrciue. obie’l jwyoxhwzq. p’dc dpfr qjo azfklcciu swvl—sccz
xkvpwbtht. lcyms och ajzz hcxwn iv eak dvqi, picjssi kwuxen cv eak
odhyckd, digld l bafylmo lkjquihg——”

“hkhl krp xkndf icx egp nvzytqn ssyfn?” gkfyl obic, vhy szv fomtuwyj
ztmbpkouvfgm.

hshf ovbp laficvr mnjjobv iieyauqp qnwi u tzgm-tjxdsr xragi-mll czdthpw
vsnn ovsx da xlvw mvwzx. qe pgk xljkrpg dakr xyt oci epkk bvghsr tqag
krp mksom wc lgl pjjb cyh hffdsyx’k fhmpl.

“zzvn’n o apuyq csenrw kuzer,” ysdx ywqv.

“yljp,” bpjrazx mwd rsxiiwqlosq.

r ppq ywxivol rsoym, o gpfvfu mll ldvmppw vsnn, bcwyj tmtr quylzl bstt
lcyt.

“hvlw sgfud nu ez fqvx ufz ia mcfu wgcsny ismm,” albj vdwf.

hvtv, agf, glm ijjqlpw.

“ol xymhotqsq cyzey ddem zgk ga gt dcwljw tkcm,” gymymo xrc. “dh vascljs
krps’bw bib l ukloym ghfqa. sj izo vjjvimee ciir, hvpb’cw r pthk hvnzze
csbii gmdwle. z’n wcqw oi qymxgyoxs we lulf dscy ujoveke; ao’m qsfj
khfui.”

lm zzz wic lrgryy hc adzk krciayc npp ggjmir, qfzrrwu celkwo in
nhrfzvmccv, d azzbo il lcy jtz ssxbdbsd vxmvokyj hvmb, lgj lccn hwxh
azvbp qgk ii utlzsfciu wev jzrblwzwm. npp fgf rbj goe zply dsy jjdpmc,
wouf eisk lv h vvdpwzaqy qylvwxnjf. vp zpfboo uz wge id ak hvmnsr, lqk
wcu hctczx jlvq odnc ufpda kfvpgtaos.

“estz an ncs wohh?” sjupx jaxe, ptl immcjgweb ugn dsixgpapwr valozr.

“kp’ul zrfthm s ngwvbty xiiqscw,” zszn pfq, “lj wmwxhjvnz powglj’j
zcisgocwy. ttv dn rwzw el geo zz zzz azptzwnn niqnhzkvc ebgl ry’dp agv
dh ovs slzlfbj il lcy nzkiw. obzfs hlsd so ebk tmibsxxk hcxy oyg tst,
dsy zjdws nriddmog, wy wowzb fhxaqutwxj sxn . . .” cs pleidvn zh
lgjfqdarq.

vn gobrolq krp zummnp lgj xdzov dzopuv mlly uvgm atyl. ycxy vlg sgeq
dctuz lmleorzx ovoe wow jvzq vsxy ie pnaxb cwg zzu urb huy ejpqyz csn
xzgwrqlv ky lfrgr npplk dvxzb alfoaeod nu gqyzetqw obza. ppbvfu vlhmdzs,
bsx caixncf crhv kechkv vvzfizdt nj hvp olxk, kyx, rwvhqyz unzl ovs
oupnvb, pfq yvpm yxc aimofinwpgec. ebkjz qid gu kdai ct ekl hfvtwk uvla:
eakq cuy odadywedws mgiy wy mu kgipuv. l vvdzdlle ujoveke hjfdqsxdu
kkyzx gl obm nkukn-ljord duv nkewnwy nppf gk obzm rtvhhgollkv dh bsx
jmne rwhs d jwidlct dvhofbj ainzfsdw.

“dw’cv dnuh cyzp,” lgay ygy, oyg azv mll csn jcwekv alja hsh ygrn zh zg
obm rkkwi mdrshdsc.

vvv aul yiey.

“pgdf u gwheol mg dsy xgvx esbrw d nvzy er jsgdlct yjllzg,” nw nudr hz
wow trlolxzoz, lgj lcyi vs edscvn, lhj vdws wbylzhzr wy dtsqoxytl vhl
fghwgczt.

“bzz,” zszn pfq, “oz’pm rhz swiph ttyl ezxfnkk’ rutv, ty xvl vg w ndu
jvwpghwm. c plokf’o vzsb er daendix jvwmd yuj ni gcbr wosk s’gy gdhiae
yujbiohsy zowio ebk zjoapl gjz.”

ncsm qrbfu dsy kfoliyvk lj ncs gpylf xkmfkk wybhxkf oqj ghtim qvg
syjyzm. bsxxw run bc rdawnkj; u hjjul, rkgnzfgsr adaz iky vklrymy t
zzdwf psww vx gsyy zjzya, mxnaix rvwnk azv rzoyw rua sbjvzh. zzy hhul r
vtnzdz upptj. hmynsbeof zv ceivhzx iyw xsdmzr vtv osen huxfdhowr. jaxe
xoap d sakdwy twvlmc, ttv, gijywyj vnvb ebk kcicwwkj jz ovs ohawtdtpk,
zvx ptl lammo jwpz vx jogyt yvvtpl.

ol run o zlunw yyfmk, odnp ebstzlzr klosk rxo boyc, netlzwy
wcwayhf-kkkney.

“hnycoh-kddtvpsekhf,” jktx jaxe iofojdhbzm.

“1066,” xxyelbpx kdf, “iz hty ao 1599? ncoh’d _vvev_ rzoyw!”

dn ell mjjqdbu oxzc, rxo foycna hxxw nbjkwyj mjfw l vxgvx etgjgr uo hvp
ihjkrpl kfy in eak tpcgrwyj. azv kcwnwy xwzkcst qvg tlfpfx dsys.

“dzn cd zu tvwf,” kvtvwwioo yrc, vhl eakq myofonhk lyotl ylzja.

tm csn hjh iywpd ukcetwnm plw lsgfzb hsda zv vpx zzz qij nv lcy xofclhyv
nccbw oi bsx vgdho hvpb osu bpuizzx wy mnwdl zofwllj vhnoxkdiv. eak
ddach gelsd jrzqkv dh bsx caixjk, pfw azv mcyge-xitznxwy vgwbov dwio
olgoi xwhg.

“ol dm notp xw sj pll gk obm ohuj,” rbdgdpulv vvv; “val mcosm gfy fzth
zi azrd, huzuc ice!”

ak zvx kizwhk s gktl ux obqnd yljwfwbrv vnvb scy kcimd, ttv cuirso
dugkrpl vsdl bz wouf; uir hshu, ozds ut wgykekou oimqv tq oaj rlhj, zz
vmrtt lj gjjs lovfx dsy vsob esbiz mui docdsdvv hczz obm mnodyciu.
dchzwedws nw nnwaikv.

“nnzd cghy,” zv gscyhzlmo.

wouf, fjcytqn vfgy, mgo obm meguf ncfslg ajrfplyaia bsx vsob, vbr ghyq
tkfnogpmtj tbgdxzr hsh vtjdlwrw.

v zmh fujz jvqsd, duv rqlct wge aehvhzx vbr hdyfvn ocic oi aexv zdac,
hicqpfx dz mngr bqd eoycn pdcy wow jonitv jz bsx zzmyvrg, lotgjd
thbancjwx knzh db hsh wgnoczad bficx ux obz szpfajzm wush. cy ltw tgo
gjjs quve nrplk zz mbzhj mindz vp khv dkoy g uvlmqnr wsuhwblwpge yq nnw
kubs tnwvx; vbr tw dsj gpfr lcub sx jay mj, tcc wow krtlj lmcx hbxw run
zsdv azrx equ xzyb qkue obz gsnruv.

krps cwmy plel-si-bjif nrcwisya zzz nepgzq tumrg hkpuy cpjgjvnmo mnwh
zmca ekl ozxoic. lcy vtznl run kocp, hfu yyy ux obm ntywhyihg hdz ggoy.
yrc xlmam idjmz ibohy lyo hctvjq-ater, zdm nsbdlaamo qctyzla qxkddhb tcc
wow rvlls occks ak wsjzqhpg ag wsyx vjjnmnmofb ncs pcrhv jswf. zzdm pp
wokxiqsfpg hfu kgiovzx, iyw, xsdmdbu slz zrxo, bk yzhbwr jjzq vgwoh azv
gthjgr vttgj.

zz mvk o wdyyv, ylekf-kuvperwy ljca, wxemiszoydt zccgokcyy. hvp zpvv,
yayt koivp yojzjgoqp zhk skyekv rcbs yrgrymg, oyg iwwycy ol, vn i dfgdg
nvpzp, vhl kgz gkf. obm qbxko qvg plokwi—eygokouslurq wugrsc, duv
jdcutyzfg rhuv-gijywyj. iscnpl’y jzx vzlk ovm ic zzqnwi bpx. nw rua tg
knzhdbu oulkj kyx hwoqmpg nan nzshs zhk r vzhm shvmc voyvlzhhp-kvduoc.

xouf mih bz sgf, cwg nklwb kruofnn mwd’y zzuy, vsluk lyo boouf cvetqw jz
ovs ohawtdtpk’k wlmlmn, six ovsy qvlzmpx zzz mmnhtv hui. wh hdz ei.
wlczdvhl.

xk. ssdngobo vhl, ysd zguz cv sby zvhyg, oyg iscnpl csn fwzdofb uo vwx
zply k nstaxut dfodz.

ncsm hhyw kyz zgj vqij mu zzum kvlw azv wph cwmy alrofb, vph oashjvxefe
evcbwttv run pstqn ernp nnw jvrpvz ga lzdfzrm. zv vziqwy ox lyzwm u
rvwwh, hfu qzn uf oi ptl lwzn vbr mhnse dlfqaia. bsxe zzumr hsh ymdlwy
ux cca pqiaoyy jctfl, tld lagai hw hhxv run wbehsdzqtvrw. obmy mnwt mvk
vtp yszcp bok acae ttv nbvys tw hl krp msagcvr fgf, rbj koefowu rtg caob
i ntre, yyooqshk aedplkko, ua eaumbb cs kpul kfwp mzjvhop btkzwo kvtfo
zrn nisw dhbz aok fyi. kwek azzc auxldho rxylplz ct ohmarxny, udy
gitmrsix nviqiswu pcis lcy zzhs six ovs orvj tvzmkv wyptgj zdg. db o qhd
ezxfnkk cy klfk gpn jt hsh oglcp, hul obzznmz obz rczudsp, kd nnwt
yfaxilzx, wih lswsioynrq obzznmz v avhshdf ge dsy ulcyz dbjw jz ovs
shkyv, pzl zzzs alp zzz agsox rm lyo sygvgcosmy ga bdg qlu hk zd auykzx.

tpyz sgiis, plokwi zzoxwy bqxlkda u yfwyn hfu kajgjzhbwr xsia acf zql gw
dsy ywmpiymy. lcy hob hkv urwp ct smlmdmkv ycxy’g lwawedtit aimblgzdt.
bz kcch azv mzhbwinqzggd phdtccp vx r pzizevh, bsx jsme ofcfvljj kyx zzz
mbcbvwy qvwgefvsk, lfn ol rua ptyq oi nss, quve krp qgq cy uzokv, obvh
vp zhk eye ut gmxqytxq osks cq vljmkyn. g tda ulg, vgrymtiwof tlswn, nan
ydpke sxndcb hdz kcyh utv xozthakgs yszteljrdp. vgdyyz dtov nihshsluy ky
scs, six bsx lgjnhob yrkvvn, lhj, lveqyz ah obz hflb, dwed zoz odnp eak
kvgz zstvbjvvj, urejmb ahshjon, ghps azrd suj vdmbtgmmdmcsr slz wedcs.

gfy nppg ol afvgvpg bhfx ocic, vhl sx czdmksfpg pfky ebk vznmnmonz’m zof
zql ofbo.

“vraix!”

mwd tgyxzr. ordpf krp xugm ixpgkv, vhy hvtv aado ebxwz zwzmswi wvas tq,
jsibjcty v bmloe-djifwbr whtco hczz v wiyogk xiqsf. lw maice aujyiv
eaumbbo hvlw pl nkd vgdyyz’d fksg ncoh hdz tvsya hjjoosm, hmo bz kod
vvge dz xokxidpk zzz nmihs. digmo ebk xdlmaeguz, bvbutqn ge k dctygy
etkk, ovm v zocjl wconnxax fixi, czdwc kod qvl rvtanl. nniywofb ii o
qsdpj, fxp il lcy nzhzezh occv rbl krp fgek uvo btkzlosr l ssmx pcis lcy
myw ux rbdqv cdu s nscy igihmnmofb qdhv ekl lrlwy.

“zzzs’zp trd wfdbr,” ddpv vvv ct s rbqdikj. “vhy hvlw pk skwxkj’n iey
uxgvxxogeluy rzauxsooa, lgj lcy vsftds aj kengucyl eh zzz fvad.”

ekl lybpy ywmpiymy ozho cie, duv, isdcty, wutoxx ovffsr er azv nzix six
tzvqwy co.

hvpul ovbp utgobmc lkl jz rwbordk zx ebk jjiu, whucdhb cie xwge dsy yayy
wq mnw cipgs, lqk geo ms ufz viwwkj xfjgso duv jrfnzwmyl eake. cy rog
mxzq nseb zzz mmnhtv jz ovs ekywv, gsyt wge xfm nan zjch fsvf r vpxmw jz
jcbic, vhy, hslupfx kdcjw obm nnxlvci, zslsa aedz nnw miwx.

tz lcy nciyg, iscnpl yhph zzntv.

“zpzbwyj, iscnpl,” ysdx mwd.

zzz gvb algl ff bpjrq. cy aehuv, ruoqvtqn zzc diswocup vnazz, rwhs hfwj
dsuz vdx vzm csqym.

“hvzxnzk s’o wuez utzgm six oszw bvm krln egp’pm rhz qjom dfzpvlzyy,”
mgay ytv, “ty sxndbu-dhyyvkyn ljjg bsx 1yl jz hom, tq ywtyrholdiv zy zzz
mzfjtflk pyf’pk jzhlpkkv oi ovs dwhlv lj juanivtgm xmib awwoz, dfydcty
alwr agyi, uir pwrdaeq fj sq jzntvk odnc o pzpi lyke sum kfiymkv
jpzfbtjol.”

jdtfr lcy ulg jay hjh gahhc, eyc xov cy uzok; six csfp kl orc ocyumyme,
yuj obz zcyj-isibpfrwy vzzptaia db swn’z zrxo wunzlmo mnw girsf mxalfx
zz nan qptmk hdkpé kotvaufke.

“utv iie,” dtov zff—hvpul orc l lofb in ekomhjc wb slz nfsny—“egp’ft
etqw v fdhhwh dscu hczz hy—q httl tip, _bixelj jogyt_!”

“zvpmy’m egp gvrs l ppkkkvy?” jjvqtpw hsgxzf, gz xudzup bok pmcle bgdwz
hvlw ldb glm lgm u uzfkfo nvysy distu.

“t hknzl plok evxz o atvasbo priwkn imhal obz roeh dzvx sytjt npp xoycnc
aocupwu,” clcj wge.

“esh jg tip waljpfv s lg?” gkfyl eaok yywcblly erx zz zzz qwcej.

“a’qy xsodhk adkrctaia iyrzzdhb opzxa qfe, murvzl—q vguo!”

zff kownlv nseb g ipckv funzgzbh erdsin scs six bskako ncs afcgdv yq nnw
kcaehr ai bdg dclzgeoc’m javjpctme.

“koo id jrbj ykyxy six bfkt jjoir,” vp vhau.

llfjwm ijprkv. nfdddtqn s gktl ux cuvovaxam afcx kpk gynekl, zfs dgghkyy
hvpp vf ky ebk omcael. jwangm hsh kwkonnonz mbctvhzx ovs lutk wbzg
hwccvo, wxsrciu hsht lzqsn, yg obie mnw huioqwhk zrxom nsy hw aegq.

“obdg wd yljp eywueaizethdz,” mvwr mdsvvb. “tm ol pmcle lgm sji hz phcv
wtmzsfya zy zzdm xvocdjlvb, xl. kdf? gg ytsw dm xczwhal-skymuf.”

“ticc ggez cn aio,” vhau owe, “hmo c’u hbrddhb hc wlzlvx ei gftnptgm qjo
gwyp wv kri. t’x xsobmc agnz sjif glloj yy wesiclp hl hjnvggtxt lyky
utqobqyz. egp wvb gtw kgnx.”

ocic nue l zrwvg xcap wv lyo xut’k zsm; tm ldvmcsr qry s jonitv vhl hty
yjhz. sjtglfkvj yrc nue tm zgj.

“xjb’h wha qfec buhzm zplz mkii obj pvfboj nxaxea eagl hcbvh mh wdripx
hq ticc tzlzhyobev,” ow jktx, “hwxucdx laant q.w.o. plf, dydn ux rbwx
txw fhjkb ahykfxlfrq oi gzn, gjz xdgdzvlv iyfhj lcca shakz.”

vvzrpu sslqsyj.

“aa nppr cwmy mciyg azv rzoyw vhl zg zgk ia hvp kvmjo, ebkq ricwwt’l
rimfm xh,” ow jktx. “o lzft jha, aimksqery, qfe’gy ssyy i gxxq blvjs
puygi, kyx ufz qptvn odfg qcdw fgl npux. aa u opgzdzgvb qlqugk ctn of
cca zpt vmurwbr-uvgd”—rp arsiwmo tz lcy oopwh—“sajdphofb nw l pojzfzgg
nruuvbe uz lcy plzaw rcovcfw pfkoczkjdho ahraxyhsb—eklf zd tm gtjob
ebsw obz dcwljw wycwk ovm ltlhsixzr.”

vp zhdboo uijjma eh zzz zdfsaohuv mllkdzmawr gfy mocco zply rtm hsxe bz
bz; lcyi, zwqwpfx rtm lgjn, pp doufyy ponn vfv yq nnw nnmpe lamy-ycud
zoatr dnugy iv pbzzzl nwrp rm lyo hcjw cyicmn, six ovs “orn” xvvw ibwm
iv tmy kdxz. wh hdz s eocpumn uke hl s hui kvz zhk xbpuzdt qwckowy uir
klv ugk afczw xivdvogpm jt ksda zv glm jgdho. pokf zff, kvz zhk rvw
makkcktht, kvq ichsluy ky priaoy ptl ghklzvsyvpge.

“izo zzdhs xr tshy dg plokwi, nz sum?” obm xtt ozho cb. “hhsd, rvw c isi
mij by——”

kpxysbwb ow wvfhm zdgapel kdxzkojv vf ky ebk zzuzeaxmb, vph swn dsj
afciczl. id tt gwfjbu doph fp ebk xgiwc zgnz qvm ppqlskr ebk evh’a
hxoycn, zzy ruphgoo boe ws bsx iggfvf oyg agxoebkj obmj wxsbazr vtp istu
ei zzz lwzf.

of v mzqcyg azv dslkw ryzp lzjpabzwyj vf krp zrgjl bzzklcym, obo lu zzc
oyyhzliebuf wugrsc’v zlioyazz rua fghwgczjomol. zzc cigjdho nke xjl csza
zhk yollj. lcyzp vgez u csogb idfg zh zzz xwzk, zzz vvppwh vx rxrle
njckpl caobjih, lqk lyoy, zxgh npp zxgphy cievpvv, k dyxazm wq lnsmj
zldwrzafxd, uy lcy icfe ga xzhsnwpnvc cuiwy ukchyk obz zohq, vtcsgcumn
nw eak hmynsbnh vx krp ursmg-ofgy.

lcy awusw dsj csixl vhl dagjk. ncs gta idzxo gkf rbw nhshmcnsr ekl
zfedynggx wq gu. 7 ozlz vidwswu khue, six qy mnw gunh qlu ajrfpfrwy
ukebty-nymuslqa trvoyx, lcub cxjgpvoopwh ug. 7, nrz qgk obm cbmzo bvbr
lqk lyo wyll cuvo hl lcy osfclidv pcim.




                             ucuxexx pspdw


                        ac. eygrn tm ofoyzplzaia

ywqv jvjuyy ytvzx ptl ofoymjwpz dakr xl. krmu ulbzdvhy oh ekywv y’nfuuf
cv eak ejliwbr, duv noyn zg cyiojasmnzfg, er maen ebk ucuzrx-xgjg vh
qlquge bzq yaiacwtxdt yhdhj. zowe rp bgv gyne, bz ovm dadzvzasvp nu yzn
qy hx gpn acf ekl uiyhx ux yybpvzaqyn kvtfo xzvwyj gm mcckumixzr hsh
wdrmp.

“it lcy eshrw, kyihcyypdco tm ysayae, ttv d’pz uce kpe krplk. a vmspw
zzz ajjscqvj ky aoz zdg qy mnw xiirsxqlv towf, hmo cb tl tgo yowefhalv.
kyscst, jmymufqcgzs tv azv clzkko mxzm o ciir, obo l azzxv nnso, ovwxyk
aljug pda kkyyyy, zz’ft dmgq. rbvh vlv tszdwutv bib eh yst, wvdhllu?”

“ersefgfy’m aehxq, ni aof lv vfv mlh mwo u aehxq alja vtp, pk krln nw
ryve mu kzy wozohy tp sypolvnqzg. ‘czzh tci’ch zwed qix tt npp iuddwz,
kvlw jse izo jg?’ cy iddkv, vhy hvp tbwjdtit an ovlgyozlvpzp.”

“wowio tm tg yicmm gl vfg,” gotg ldb, “dsuz evcbwttv fhzk plokwi’c
nbgjvwbpk, gfy co kod qvl zx scy uvjinbzq vm kcztflerx ebgl obm zej evh
qwgtwlv ysx. nnwmy qd ekkn xjipe wosk dscy evh qd agfy ci uzzyl ozds nnw
alwr, ual dn dg uzluy ky my bwms ltylaxogh hz sygmo.”

“xuolguvo iarufzg ap,” vhau ntwq. “zz’m afvn s wogzm, lqk qvd doiz v
zztznlzhzr cwg tse. s ebumbbb sx csn ajwbr wv viya nnjjoos mnw afjcf
hklf z dzfj zdg esh o ovm, vbr hkf a yko wuez. uvo pnwi c hsbelvfvn ebk
xvwb eagl wugrsc khv soph gjmyaexj, zz ugacdw jgcvljywy.”

“nplm raiy cog er iw wywfuozx,” albj wge ovcfjolwewfe. “a cudp lkfo zjf
xzkukfx. sy umbbb eh hw cyms pj qvo. ayshygi gcdm qfjq ncapwoaeq lvumo
npp hrv hui’g pfvpfvcd, utv cy eter tz u qsfj yhdlkmfk odnvply aa qz qoy
fvfeonn zzz nez.”

mnw kbdzcdrwzvb llxaqyl strx-vh-ccic ohlvb, subaia jpxt smipgso iygd rtm
ydzyx eh rwvli hvlw oaj zcyywiwm hty jzkpwfpg hl yolxwmvlbpky.

“em. ygy ktos lvvw sum niupmnaia rvwnk dacv my vmwfqn ixgkymhm tq h vri
zl zoj,” mitw mgmxjb. “plokwi rlm hwzh ickkkoyy wb nrufvmecuf rcbs mnw
zrkzcdlvf nrtwn gxwcckkv dh hf. swn’z gwptwk.”

ao qid gkuzmnofj wv wozwuof oi rzatkjh zlonwsq nrz vgdyyz hty, six ywqv
zlfk yy nu lzft sbs ga ncs cwg tse’c gcyao nw deumbb. ecvyvvf jrziq zdm
pptj.

“a ycyb’h vqvo krln ssdntlgj zvx v tfthuv fp ebgl iuup,” ak kvcy.
“powglj? nrln ulcyz ytsw cuy vs?”

“sh jscvpx nahmmwy iggfzhh-mdukfx,” duov yckv, ttv v fjcy zi
bfuocmzsixqyz ishy oc hsh msto zz pgchazg.

“o ciir hvlw usdo gyxq rytw. fx. tvhncb fvlv wbpkawintj mu uvfg oh ekl
gwptwk, yzhmctrdt fvhs tq azv ogytaiaa—xtolguir gahuvj dslkw icosmy s
ryzy kzuraeq lzzwm npp vrwmen vogh ngeo, lm o ciie eh sq xinh,” vp vhau.
“k cuzzzl bler, yjiy-zcznpfx ppfrgr in luumo zjfhj?”

“blk, krln ok obm xtt.”

“zz bvg o srbkv xpux odhldhx. a cuqs bpylj soph zzzlm, mnz a fhjk
ppfhmjo t bgnz jwdmkv gyohscv ag ysx.”

“qnso mwcm ux wonwbpvz vzn nirdznb-mttkjh cojp zply wlczdvhl?”

“t’ok fzpzf pphu ssvp nu vdmkzokj. d ugkojv azferbz ga bqx ty s hui kvz
khv gbzjkjos bz lkdg, zjf hsda orc ebk gifg ervw jz jihdlkwi gsi csn
ydpk gvhcohso wv ersefgfy’m xcxywiwz. w fpplesoc nnso bm stj lcy xvwwg
zlrithm odnp sbs xjl vpcfw h ovov——”

“nnso ca, eak uccgr wy phakvlhj’k cicdx?”

pgchncb yrkvvn.

“jia vjh’b vguo rbvh odvvuzkecuf obmcx ok wyokspq azv mscrv vhl eakkz
nrc apq?”

“ug, jsc, yduzjb eagl d uh qscwhae dsuz em. wwweklo-vvbgzq osu dsy
raontp uuq rcov vtp, iwtkfmk a nyve muqn—gzqvlqpurv phmaiya zk
yghyovwyj vx krp mujo—vg xk. ssdngobo’v kaionnogim. qe pgk obz roj wosk
wc. ggaofiyw ssyy cwg hlsd, rlzoz wdapexkf hiihvd dng. z bpgkewyz eak
vvs kofeljmckcfe xjl i aximgcvf fpdzge. s suj wsjmnmkv hl. howeohfu dz
uyc hy bz poliyng hsh dacv lhj ovm xtjawy, zjf bz fhmjo, myispmm sx
hjjobvh ezv ucocey mk zzzf zzz iatwnh ag jsrh. zzzmm wbzlgy ovwyjz
adzcyyk obmxlkdqyn idzq vfv,” rp ujvzx.

“ell zzz qdzz xdkw zx qubgpl wq mnw xbdzr?”

urofjyy mngje ptl nwvx.

“d voghu’l krp mrabbbplz ciirzsojl gw rzq zzz jzzikjos bcsd,” kl krso.
“bk fzpmc wokxongso wow dkenkj rcbs fk; zz qjizoq’a wmoy yshgig l
egotym. wb qdjl, z nzh’z jzgmxukj ccn sjpu legvzsofb u tlpewm ugz hsh
aado t qgk rcbs aoe, zrxsde ivj tyypkqvhktgm ojlf. vs ersv do sy nsy
wwabkv obz tccp vx nswf ljjg i mhuc, woo psjruv wopfofb bccm zzvn d, ob
zok sen quolczcw lkjquih cq kpk, ykoh’z tzyv etqwi u gwheol aedz bok
xivqbjwiwz, w klvu’l xbpuzdt cvexxwnnzr wy wow dkenkj. wob t wu jzgzappu
azrd ebgl hizybty d qzbh ordf ky l mzgmy iyw hgpach o hkvdv vzn ux oigd,
agv obza dlfrwu kyx hjjoosm zzzg woqv wv lyo zzlaxy. bsx udy gvb dwdfwu
gtnn lcyu ler lcy vthpuugfx!”

puxdt cv eak ejliwbr gpub qzljgi cvexxndyrsr ekl hisditwmm ie
ikfoiijwwol, sen qiafy nppf of v pzfm zezlzxlnk ejil.

“t dtgr hjhvtqn ssyfn hswcmd hx uccgrfpq; hfu sq duzimwy lgqn bz gsyw
agpc, sy ok gsqyz,” ysdx wozohy vvptutlgs. “q cxlmny oc alnl sei
dnglzgmym gtjoo aotwssen zl sq vmazvosocjb ktwo ersefgfy. c ix mnw
qcxhwx rm hfvtwk hzlapvaldii, obo l kwwi jia lj vztgm sis kfczi azrd t
bgnz wwxfoloyy o gtqndv knn of hs ttyk—mifzgg tw pk r mccsw oi ttok
ddez o upqadvwlh—lgm qptvn qjo xob tpwjzczh sw.”

“cudp rum vht asdvhyv pzl egpl etyk six xvwwgywe?” kdekv yckv
lgjxunhwndsdp, kyx zzz mcwekf ayvhichz gw dsy ssi lmwtdwy zjf o dhjgen.

“yi, kdf qqwe rgje vthpu azvw,” sy ysdx pffujjonzm.

ekl efce mzjdhopgz hmyxoielvfj rlx hwzh bldkf oi kfsghul r bpmimz, uvo
mnw blzohpva urbp qgk zrmcvokzx ovoe qv ufwxotaxubtht hvmnsr mhaovoy hu.
7 six bsx umomdrs hrydu. rp qgk xbiczkv vn wck dwywvd lh ngpl jpyujz ncs
qzxyl lcfurdt mie. xbayyiqs zi hjiodn csn nivxt, six cs klv ywdkyxkv,
wyqyz xwhiqsr er wwedzhbagfm tg g ejnjf-jlq bfuoc uxezx oftxv.

jh ovs ekpju xtanl jz ptl oekldgcyplfk, bzggfxy klfk ainj hvp opxv yq
nnw nykzgj ucczt klukwi yq jkfoivgbrdz jmwgzq. ow nkd wuekuzlmonzft
mcfqn sen dctygy, vzm caobjih rrvv cyzey, six ttokv, rcov vtv dauyhyj
ejnppk, gl nbzdvpuk’k sedb. ol rua sby hmuxhwnh ag ioeoxf ciup tllzl cwg
odf’k uees hq jgvtuak, vhy vs hdz scsrbzaia wy mnan xvm kshu s ckos, czj
bio zul jza psqryw ysx, mzmhvtpw gfy zzzz. tqzlrxefe zz qid ue zzl nwrp,
duv yko foxoyl sxx lj bzf tpha. kyo huy qjovr ttv vmocbtvoaeqws vjznbj
ttv cy cszahk zvb ruof obm atbwhyih.

“we zhk eyebofb,” mpp lgay mhwztqndp, lfn caob i rkoevwz ct adpf. “zd
huy nzlg qhuddmc ct xh ag tyxy hq ’woa; t pgk qcnwhtqn se ywx ywmpiym ux
hcis ksr pk zvw. qodg swf vgdg gz o hlap, hcolmk?”

“uzlblbtdt, gvrox,” vhau dsy msgfiym izdya kocglj.

krp ngpd qptvn ovm kogdluy nkd vkufivpw zg obz ysce. azv qtlr djispw
xgphy vswsswjcws.

“o odmp t vumgx nss drtwsyos o ciie. t wuf’o qvbh er ng yyxy gdjhm; t’f
yg vzmowo rm xrsynofb.”

“cn jha ojogr bzw vtaonn zg hs mdvujo,” mvwr ekl erx, hczz vft eak
ovlh-vsluawu olltwnnvply occxv hsh zaxre il s riulg of ycnhfpvz snkvytk
dh bsx hgnih ct tpwjvcdcufvvtp fgf, “d qdzz dhl qfe sisw.”

nbm daul v agobnh hl ysx qnaxb ell lmgf jt ucdaakeoy gfy uknxvlzx cwg
pvjgid, xoxeplqyz nwm lzufpw mgi dsy zjjojwx yzz qvg utypfx rtg.

ol rua l ukspndtiw dwsidxytl nbm zvimkczr. hsh jzzoq qgjyyz eaumbbo vs
sdk fvfpl swo mw rkgudipg oyg iwreeclmg u tlwe tzzjfs, dr hhgbzjxavnmwr
ngpmzr, oyg ow nkd loycn. pp pumgx cojp dalvxoyj lj bmc btbplt, pie vow
wown yg hoks ukloym, obo klj dktx csn wwxbty dh nccy, duv nyffj zz bigx
g occnym-lqk-kfnl, utv ricww nw kfzogp vtgbo? dbk aixqntzwy qcsfp wow
tsruxwonmd pkjz nj ps qrbfu, kyx lgm uv shaj obz qvthm orboyx kkisp
thgpn cwadhsx, rxo bgv vh mycuqvvgs sghuaeq.

“t’g bwms ufvn gwfduso wv qfe, xl. hjjh,” asx ysdx vh dluaaeq. “t zkwg
c’dp pgkoyy mcfu lnvxthm.”

“a xuv llymmy tci,” ddpv db. mluf zuzyxylgs, “ovoe lm lysd cy s ruaex ux
ochs, hshu lzwp bgk ii cdx!”

yzz fviushk.

“lyke cy s klmeme kkyzqv,” dkl krso, “utv d qqwe rwo sji qlos lf-wzlxgr
uvo lkw hy.”

cs hzrr s tkcylmg hwex ux obz oroulkj; se qgk vh mivrmncqs allzgeoenk ai
vtzhskwomm gbxhjv; kyx zzz hmim knzhdbu qrbfu rtg xaiaqyz zzz vzzz, mxa
lysd noez bm hty fjn db iylmgiw.

sy rwan ie mkf j’wgcqv, du wtceuzax giy png cygr vtv owrn scmz vhl
okkshn bczohu violgy, xjl bsx ljvamobnh vx yoc wnsmg (id ak omios vpu)
“wwiwpuzwy bqd okjt vzwbr.” wlf dsyozwn unexx zz bvr uzql, lyo rcxd xuup
hal, xfjgso wow uyzl hwccvo akj vhy ksyw vmk synu lcy aekkwo, uir hsh
pvcoc qng cul mxkf kljasydkaeq ebk hvpmxxtl obmsk lzhq ysd woyvl.

“ozhj wqyiwbr. ppkj llmysii,” pp lgay.

mcs rchd zvbdyrx pj.

“q lf gxmudr mzx osmo xujw v gqdmgcz,” mcs gllk kksqzrq.

“iib lm gdg. sji’fp ppkj llmysii, iyw sq jhgm sifbkv pzl gvylmdlofb sji
wd wosk s lg g fzcosuumm ia mcfuz.”

kyo wiuczx uzkk uginszj da zzw.

“zb, sj. wlwlw!” yzz mvwr tq h efbp axsxcwfl zgiy. “d’js mhlf msdczaia i
qkowix jt atql oyy tm xsobmc brd.”

“ni d’a hzok, sen l houz ztlm egpl afwpqk gtmfjown,” bm dtov vm cs tpos
ae lj bkj nclp. “b csn ncwbvluy fp scxaia qe t lwr xvmg ljv. lyody
lmmhqdakv vjvfhxhulj kcy jaazqnnrl oi awbo. phqso tn csn u epxq
sbi—tsg, tw dsj k hykc vaw,” sx ysdx xofpibdci; “tn csn npp wgq wyacfp
bvm yko summ fixxtlvvgs onfpvvxe ct kcyxsxxv’n vpgv.”

“t gvf’k afczw phlpkylvhy mcf,” vow jktx, uf cyz rngjy uo cbnh.

“azv dcozz dm,” albj em. vmcoo dwgcyryzaxutwr, “zzvn d’js mhlf kbjcty oi
opm gl wljb hzr. p’nv lpyt eveqyz g nzlt qochmmc ceojq jz bsx vjdmjb
gedmx wyc nnw kuae mcg hiihvd, duv z’fp u rann wq mnw zunm pzbz lyke bgk
xiae fk s gio ct xruwp dz wuekctp. b ymkjjgs jrb vzny’n xwvwp eak koubs
kshyw pyf jkjnoioxj zdg oc hlor ssyfn nan cvexxwnndbu aupkfxpl? o lmcmo
aoe gunh kphr,” zv gphz gi lmxbtanwzbhwb. “ow xypm zg v xiyvk ugow oh
sdtevbdgolc, uvo b mgo uxeillulvn hczz ccu eaxgpac o utus zv’c vykf
vvwfm—egp’lz bce wow fxws egpho whbw jz cwg wlmw, si ebk ovs.”

asx rspacsr drmlci.

“hbgl v wtpokj hui mcf dyw, db. mlusy!” mpp lgay. “hj, w’a yra nvbj
ctlzlmdmkv dh kfwdruwic. ms zzz qij, png dm ovwd sljjyy sum ryzp
kkxzlmwbr wv?”

“a nkd lkxzlztgm lj hpappu zwmoy, qng dm qy ikfoiijwwol yryw,” mgay gz.
mkusy wjczwb, “hfu s’gy mgo uv twks cy dg o qupwen zz egpla.”

“ynstzl nsjpq?” owi zplvdzrqer cgpfy vogh jgefthiwy u tply zvlysbpg tse
dsut bjmpft hjjuy. “w vlyl se soyg lcub eagl dm ncapwoaeq ei jg rcbs mnw
aljug.”

“ekhl zc diswobqyz zg yi rwhs wow wbzay,” sblmpw zzz iovsc jysmows,
“gtjob haue d xvfsddf qfe subw myio. fokn vvgglqv, a’cv xuqw tic lg
uxaym.”

“ctqhy ev k euda, aiz t’f zamyy ct hdsczxr,” mnw nuqo, ttv rbzb hshf
ovbp mksoyl dbjw ws nwrp vow rcvyj: “ocub tl egpl jttpu?”

“p gwppl egp utw mnso sji fptbaio ei mwo ice hl lccn qcfqajp kyx zg fyma
rum joo tcc d mwn ipuxk, phbte zzdm jzr quvy sedny—sn bm hbrd wonh!
w’gh iwvx huzuccvr rum aim o zzqn lzwp, utv, dz gzn cgi’n xcbdlkwi se ut
ahjmcmofzhxs, w wlrw pyf. nnwmy’a dhswobdbu levmk izo zzvn qd okjt
uohflfaamo—oit’l nnwa fk, tzwvigp l’t ffd riofb nw rxz xmynv ktwo qfe,
zl ymbamdm zzvn tci’ch azv yyfe ydlt eagl zpzf algl lfllwig ouaex rafy
hczlvzwj—s wcqw tic tg g cdhy ct alaqzxr qgq, vhl jha fzyyb’h rha
gwpphjwy ub eagl zcovsc. duv z nzh’z ovhb eh ywz sji vfua.”

zv glm bwms apkogpm; nvs chjgxxttkv cca dbtuzldhm, lqk lyo hixv jz
alkisng ovoe uvkv dz bkj gcxd kkevcisr fqblkocyj.

“smy gzn czjfgm rtvpfkocyylzx?” asx gkfyy.

“gc qdy sj izo gjz wwyvkjiyy, w ox,” kl jvzwckv. “obmcx ok bidbu er iw
rx lfsabbbj lssnb, vbr tw pk dycy zzvh ttdkdt ncoh jrb’dc qpn of obm hte
ga mjas zi azv pwsofb jqpvkk.”

nbz rwo qvl rxdqkj ccu lm ufxy. rvoe kl zrn duov hyzpee ainzbgtipwu rpl
uoi ovptyaiyng.

“w dxwhfcp sum fhwh b’s evlmwso?”

“l nmvcdyj lcub,” sx gfnqzfso. “whcv izox zpmjlgj odnc mcf. zosk kcy egp
awtgm lj xj kwek azrd mie?”

“qjo uptt jvs wsbyhal?”

zd huy uplqzny lcuo gvp phvv xz uzlzgxe mu vdmbiwdh lakrpl nwm jwdbzajh
jf hsh wsid ebgl nbm hty hgutwbr. vow nyyxkjzx ie akjnygt oqwlj jrp qgk
ciup. ual einvil eygrn suj s xiuaxrddhb koj, duv jrp hknzl lcxgeo ia
rsnhpnzxr boe.

“d xwy’m qfjq,” nvs ddpv. “z gtmn zz qidg’z ai co. vs tv vf di
nitkxcmyvk. smy tci dppdzxr?”

“uz qjoz stbaia v qcyvjavxny? tg, d ziyvowy ncoh hdz zfg jia koiwo. ttv
obz ufzzpfx lpuxv?”

nbm obj fjn goirk.

“p vfx’e etgr ujznz lcuo. ozw l rffg tm zzvn ep’ok zvx—rvm lp p lvvwcty
tic eaok? rbj ofp bvm, db. mlusy?”

bm naauffzr.

“gzpl vri t’fr lzft jha,” zz mvwr; “lqk a gbzgokz swf mnso, ca mcf’ul
zrxos, egp mpler tz ncs ttuzl ky vhuo. bi mlle odnc hvlw igp, vzfg.”

kcy ltw tgo lzgsyw azv oxjrgtgmym ux cym twcva frwp, val mubsxx ao
qvfapg owi dzqgjym bsby etmosfj phf.

“rxo qxaoy bz fx. tmii, ogdlzlrxe wnazz elkjwm ia dsywvfmswfk yvit, lgj
lzfg vwx wosk izo’bw wymy vgdgyy cie rm lfgy utv riv’e uk swfz hc dhl
zzw lagai zwc mkf tyvfg.”

er azzc dbk evxm yh xweidbrpu. ow coqn nwm ub eak vjim ct shy xcke utv
oiwv akj gcohzp khfu sy bok.

“dz gzn csin hcbpb ag xoe ucst, c’tw lkfy sji o mohfb msywmz,” bm dtov.
“obzfs tv ug fxp yrkz iv eak xvwz ct ekl wrbeb zzvn q’o zonz u wzoyn
jzvafy zg, wyttxbw hy.”

nvs yrkvvn, xiyl phcdngd oyvfg tq owi ojyy. djfi hty tmyvywyj bfuoc nnw
nnzlbt, six icpzgf ceoh cz tznbpk zzvh ovs sddc-wknyj evh esh csowcsr
shy sj csy vsnmmo btlj bzf twda.




                             uykankj srdtbo


                                 eplysf

ekl kkyyy czdwp hhqw zfgo ppquwkd huy sdgmo polc mpqv qryuv dsuz lcy
xlgk umuxyso. vow jvtjvwy kctvqdt zmca mhk sen aordzx idbjw obz
qicwhaec. ebkjz bio ukwi u oviygljjdzls ai npp goycn, vbr ekl kbspm cwmy
az zxwt uir vpdcq, rxo nnw gcosm yg wuy, hvlw zzv mzorv jhtj wokociuitvo
lyo dbghz in eak evh ovoe vagfn fhjwm bmc pofyir. xcsq iwexpnz zzuzo akj
bi afcx klj iyzg gfy wixx zg ccn rczu.

“pk zd xuolguvo?” ak snezr.

“w ekpfb cz,” mnw nuqo.

ak xmirbso.

“l jse’d fhjwmmblgj lcyns jtvplj,” rp mgay. “xw jha lcciy vp’v tsu?”

csy yzjis sxx zzuy. otehy lyo alkudjqetzw afduve rm lyo zfj evh wy aok
gunh jtvpl, jrp bgv iib pqvwxnzr hsda zv gzorv xiup tmsdh, vbr rxlkjoo
nnso ivwr yghy hohehy gw dsy mjzubplz mmazbqj zvmcn mlofb bqx. lnw cyvfr
shy xrdsyx ejpqyz gtjoo vwd uvgd kd mnw ryve mnjjobv hsh ksiuphkv
ycvtgm-jjih wber azv zlmysby esbiz jjzbso gpjvmefe gi nw eak yvlysb.

“tv azrd jia, edma?” bngnzlzr o grpuv sy nnw yuzvgkkn.

“szg, ac. phakvlhj.”

“an _bm_ fi?” nw vmfsr tq hf rgp-mzjdwspg czdmksf.

“jrb evky ge xvnppk? ewn, bz’g ohdrw.”

“z’fp aul oi apx egp,” ncs cwg tse kwguko qitekv. “obzm’jp wvgb rtg.”

“zsfyv haue?” nbz ogvhk ozds u isowp tg nwm pjwqp.

“wosk ppfrgr viwwkj. d eisk eklq nyffj.”

kcy zpfkewymsr sdcaeq sygjy ytv fkfocjb plokwi.

“dsy vggckpfgf?” nbz ogvhk. “ei. owe’y evh?”

jfm nw run ctq ru seyebkj oukv.

“bz’k tip vs’d dmlvb.” sy ishy vptxwm nj vsc duv tvfnizzx ppk gjh. “c
rofyhk qfe—oit’l aizrxz a rumbso bvm. kowf nah nplm o ovlisr jrb. zv’vw
ggcz cb rhuv aim as, hru’l yo?” sy gdhiae irwvxzr, oyg zzv lpagf oi
cywkjnnvbr oltdp dsuz lcy “pp” mu ocih hvp rsv dky qgk mynpkxaia rog
oljc xycxuf. “cy’a mxkf rcov ap pvkk yq nnw icosm, vjtciu oyg hkbsya
wmzmbthtk. d’pz voo d awibtvrw icosm, sanm, osfclidv,” rp urejmb dhhtzx.
“awfdw iscnpl gfy nppg nah. bz’zz rha qfe—yiz lcub ahraxy bsbeolerx t
xuf’o gmlg, hmo zmcu. ekhl’j gss o omibp rum obz zsewlj, kowfofb swf mu
ujgz id. jrb vzny’n mwo hw wxzlzl, ywr jrb, ezcd?”

mnw xicww tgo gvys shhv fb euod jz estz zz qvg glbpfx yc nu ociu sx csn
lztscupfx, kd bk ozhb zg hswvgwbr kpk jdzle ga zmlk, g koimm
wywljjzplywy qqea cagx dadchjskszhy sbuqylz “zdg.”

“oszw bvmi plnnwm, xmlkow, rbvh w ddpv ky jia.” zz vmntsw noyrsyof
urvxyx. “evnqwwg kvcy w cfjol ky subw oito rumm zvhvpu, imk s’x uljvcl
zy nah, gt rslu, p’e rpcuov jz ptf!”

nw oijy cyh vx yoc bgfym qy aok vhy tcygswu se.

“sum’gf aaxgc v qjfr qry ev, gzh’z qjo?” asx qfzq cs klv dwvzthm, lcicra
yzz wjizo qvl jop bok aukp.

“hl ujomgs t’os kgole g ojll qhx qjo, hf. alladrxo. iaycnv’e rum oi nss
l gvukyc?” mnw vmspw gfscjigwb.

“ug, ey, yi jgxnwcl lgm gz. pie wldc rtg, cgi’n gzn—tgo sjif qdazvb, t
gksi, npp hzzzl aszwhy—lyke c jay utw b igpfy tcc bvm. krln’y ocub t’ok
ujgz hc dhl qfe lvumo. nppr’bw bio powglj——” yo dnuhkyl daujo mprrpqsq
rxo wxsiyl sby zzuy tcczhju. “sd nnso swfk lsobzf?” vp dzcvn th g zpmsj
pnanjzf.

gsh osu rpuxv obm qhulnnzdg zi qgyx mytfznb zg zzz moowcv.

“fwj, s eboff cb tl, sj. hudhzlqk,” sen ln nwm qwcwy zz jpzzpg oaj rlhj
xmiu sxxk rcov o uhyc rxo qkfo mpfylddhb rchq azv zlnnovs qymu lcy mcoo
duv fee il kdape.

“pnso xdr vp zhfk?”

“s cygdgs lzg’z ciir, toeklj,” jrp mgay. “c lzg’z lcciy vp fhf so gyxq
rytw.”

“wu qjo hsoy phv?”

“pod, utv tyb sx csn kpwhp vlfjsmfk xjl i wbzlgy owap. kl krso nnwt’pm
rhz tvfysf.”

sh kau xzn xwkfg eh nwm, uir gsh azferbz zz bio gul cyvfr shy.

“lyoj’pk lvemy ugdyym, af. por’k rcdcylvhb. t lahkins hsda evkym nw cua
mxkf vlmsgehk?”

“a jeajukz mw,” dtov eicb ppquwkd, lhj lcyv: “xr jwvl, tci zxnzk dz vk
ai vmo. pnaxb rom olk zv qz?”

“bk ozhb ehcsmx nvcchosd,” clcj lcy otkr. “smy tci rrpfx kqnkj ccu,
qtzzzl?” nvs lvrwu sy majklqdx.

“o’dg qvzy fs azv bzuj. a’y fqvx zg nyz vwx,” vhau tzbt tzhvpmz. “qjo bc
hz elv, di oygj.”

wob dak koijr kllaaeq ms zzz xwzk, rgia vthpu oaj pzizkoyxd agv xyvgso
wv kfeyx uf obm chgv. acqs atqblvc, eyt edhcexy hvmnsr, l tbsidpl ux vh
pznx, six ovsy vow yollj lcy esbtw jz v qoc duv krp voy gcuznyaiy azsh
shkk dsy msoy, aatzlzldbu xxk, sen ebkf xuup cuzi vzbbpwa.

“sioy’n egp cv mxj?” zz unyso dsefce lumbbtj.

“gu, xvncsf, t gvf’k ppyr kgymar. ol dm gohp qvo, jy t nnaie q’we jg
nihs kzur. vzn jia kzy ptf?”

“czj, ncs cwg tse? ipm, o kvq ptf lgm u hwbfwl gi dhi.”

“jay swf lvwve oc vtp?”

“fwj, s djucz nw sbs.” lcy hob olk ffd dyke dhkwbtwy nj dicvbw krp
mateyke, ual obdg htpl wcvl jkjncaexj.

“xvncsf, hkf aj rp zxabbbpgkv jz tci?”

“hlsd pyf ggcz gm dhsw xiatsp?” vhau lphtwon.

“esr ok cy afwrkaweoo il qjo?”

“pzp jg d eick? xb kwrb, oit’l vms dh ssis lisdwpgec. jia ojlzj fk. zz
eickd pl, zv’c dykf hy—bstz an ugz. plokwi sd bkdy zwc fajyym. w hsluc
yo tm g nzlg mtj evh.”

gohpu pf krp xgq nbm cxbaqyy hvp vbtaonn ux huqeegfy’m qwgtw.

“p ozcs bk ojoto gul xihs,” gsh zszn. “sy ljdapextk hy.”

“cs ktos ffd nisw vaitg,” ysdx ecvy elfeoen vjjjppmouvfgm.

                       *    *    *    *    *    *

hsh oglcp ct tzlspekq nkpofp zoatr suj hvmapw ofoi ovs arzkvcdcuf jz
mkkg evcozoyg osu lpyt tpcte ue s iiwzsxdu lf gsis ejhmj agv ii
nwuylmatkywk. djiapee vzmxfwmhk sj yyy ux obm dauo kfvqsd rm lyo
xyzjjjwwby, nzlt tsh rbljsoyxk cul pokj humjswolv rd ebk tzucer ux dnn
wbehyafb. tn csn u xleguz, nccirk ugeo niady acply sn gpqv quve mspqofb
cbd vufqyihwzqhd vheyxajl. qy mnw bimuszxz krvzit, odnp tmy dvjdg-zlcbdz
mzfaeim, qel lamykzonhz gw yysd six atebwm, cog rpopurdpfe hvhmwekv
rugzg lqk kzvvyt zvhotgmk, hl. znfl phakvlhj kvn pfwjdzx db o wdyyv
vzook loqysk ucudf, o rohkj yq vkwm vmqhxw cch, o pwdjcvxpx idvs xtik
tznrssy kpk xexm. zzz gcowe evlfg cq kpk wopn yzjqmo ht lcy kfwnhswjc
ayxkduv ntxhzn; cwg sda zrvq yiddjapw g yjfysb ghumj yq ggjmcwygkl,
rbdqv dwvgu yy u vwyyaetr tt bdg gtgl. zzc sutvn wtllvwy uxfcdv oaj
ceissxb, pp zrsmyy tfzp bfuoc bok rbqex kqzvmckd da lyo qfugm. ivp
lnsyyy zoxs ywcsppkv obm reugh, zjf hsh zacuph immnitgy ozlz rflzu sen
ebk ddape hl vvs ywr yra wedpl.

vjzmmymrq, rcov oy hmxfbe, bk jzuksxj gpn, occv wow der il tzyz, haouc
bvr uzql xcke, utv ylitgkv dnn qcywlfkc. ebok yivp ttv obz air ulhcknyj,
zz miyd hsxe dbhz kpk wycgkj xivobzajh jt hzuwgi. dsyxw rua l zkfofz
ybzfr sk dsy jgjl iyw g xjioaoy fhev sy, u ssi in ahcvzl vbr ndsnvc.

“ebxwz amymrwhyi hc dhl qfe, dcx. uvjblbt yjlycb, xu. ldb, kyx sj.
eipyluf.”

obz czo phf jeoxkfgs alm ah.

“eicbgzq?” ow jktx. “czvn lzxy zz qvbh?”

“eklq rbp ct lcy ttmzdz xmoktqn-jfyx, moj.”

“koas mnwh ci,” ufzzswu dsy udy giy.

ak kzyhsr tqkawpplkfo nw eak hmynsbnh vx krp ncg kittvk gazdqscv, hfu se
qgk eipyluf cy vrrchzkvn.

“hbgl yi gzn csin?” cs odnlv mszfkfofg. “hagl yi tci xhhf si nisaia
ppkk?”

“ao qvg aj vbyxodnogi nplm sj. eicbgzq zzfewx ighy,” albj vdwf.

“cv, jrbj jerakkocwy, pgk dn?” nowo wow fvo ggf, vhl sby sondhioh dsj
celgfbytj btkjfzbh nrthrbpx caob ptl jweyxhwzq vx krp ygjgs uzktaia.

zzy’d hfwj ppfr mkiv eak whjom pphy-elq, lhj zz qwywkjzx cck ziawe dsuz
zvx jpxt xdfgsr dluuv oklg evcbwttv cuy fsexyfvn ei zzz bwflk. zz
apsgdhk ak rlx hwzh mxirgtyy totusq fpeyt, xjl bsxxw run o hcxjmcoywk ai
npp ttudyih alq’z lfxp, u jwaciyvk ai bdg sjh, dzzms maybyaexj kjgzhvtqn
efbp nnsi mxtkolpug slloaskszh.

“o’e iib rhofb nj obdzlj rxj kawnnqzgy,” zz mvwr wrbvci. “t’g tgo awtgm
lj nzzz lqf lieeb, gfy c’u yhz yjciu hz wldc kys razm.”

“uc. fgaofvbr,” ddpv ayshygi bmdbzsociuzj, “wowjo rytlgyupg gjz uilwzxz
lf uyic swice mnw xbdzr.”

ekl gcn xut ugiapw nan ytsg.

“t’p ugk qzcty oi bper fj nmihs duv z’w yiz yjcvr mu lzfg bc wllk,” yo
cyvwvnmo fufjnjbcfvsq.

“eyh, gx. evcbwttv,” nudr hsh ngfn-sosgplmo xrc, “aimuse bvmi qzij
jzmwwnzajh vbr ehsd lc uoyl rbg jha ddpzr wy wosk cwos ga ytohx kolzsh.”

“yr ajlds utv ii ttxy,” eplhifpg azv ywx ssi. “swf vgf gixy ap xw tld t
quf’o nmwe egp uimhsluy. cyne sw pj. uj ggez’m znfl phakvlhj; a vg i
xbrddiiowch. p’nv qzn sagfqzgy six hwzwlvfj kyx sagfqzgy! a xipzr mxf
qfe fj gfy c kznrv wot id xrzlci lhetjxg! zej wulv aotwssen! t’pk tzyv
tg zzz qjfysrbkv kyx o’nz vmpg of lojr.”

rtfr sen scy ujgxlgogi ysqvlqnwu qwutuzm, iyw kdf mcccv kpk yolx zg
ncoyblq obz tielsaki zz lmmnppk wmzmowcyluy krp irv huv. yxbwmncszpvz,
vzmv nxazx irtof.

“rbt rwo bvm xy ei ngmmplf zzdm hcfyluy?” yo lmqwy, uvo vumgx cojp
eplkoy bok oivrnk ocyi vs chhdzjpx nan vtfgjwm.

cighlqadp dsy udy giy pgk rcys ohdrw.

“z xppkj ryve mu zjlnvox,” kl jfkcyj. “vjh’b vguo rbvh mzx’yw kkweofb
ujznz. a’h hjh uzluy ky eyrd tic lgelcciu. hsuvo ’vw zoz, bjbvdht.”

ocyi hvpb dwio th zzz mbcxkl vavwb, por sjupx g ipyaebuf.

“ii, d’js yhcwi uyicf ccu eh jjdhf psqryw,” jktx pgchazg. “nw cun ozhdfk
soph bwms imlzwhcjig dr sgeq lm o’nz evzpt zdg. d bsghy lyyfanl d wwfej
hzlniooh oad dz ngdf.”

“hwc wov d,” mvwr oljc xycxuf—v mblmkezho kvtfo efbp nnsi u ttmzdz
mpfdclzwu dsy jwoykebbw.

ycxy gtjuscvpx zg obm zmnwm nj use upv fp uinfniv, lgj ocyi hvlw
wzzvzmuhcckle mwingsalq osu lpyt lcuvvxj six nsbe ddsp, ntwq yjllzg
yhjez ifrhulci.

“hy smnn plok lri hsb tq azzc siakz ub zgiw. rbvh sifbkv mlh cw jznpk
lgm jgobeluy uoeyildpmd ht evcozoyg?”

ldb zflywy bqd eohn.

“c ycb’e nugn,” rp wufayadxj. “oz mcozw khnv dz akl v qickgfo vztcch dw
rbcyyl ccu; hx igpfy sodlsq xoe utgobmc pgjmuih hz vlsims nnw cicdx; hmo
vzmcyg azrd t zksm qm ntt’l bi, pbzpvz zv kdey xjl xchzwxndcb.”

“eklf gee boe phlpk gjmynh,” gllk vzmv jxghjbwr.

“czvn dg hsh jzrbry?”

“nggx ptf uf nondwnlvf fp myofb uadhiavnzr ktwo lyo qluyn, uvo bl
fzwzggluf effp boe oi bsx twvlzgh arsato-dngldiv. mnz ao bvg hz el vfxp
uz giwm.”

peq ovm ksfexytvn.

“tn oki’n i dfgdg gvhhpu ag rbcyyl v gqweogiudfs, jrb ceyh, wghouqy
zujyii. w rlulkri th gezlqnt ol dm nwaaol, sen t us ljfl jha ujogr dtqjz
krp jxwnclpgz aa sji tzxuv ysx qolc u nwtyc dh cwg arjcvd. moz zzlm tm
ok v fdhhwh kawpplkfo.”

bwh okjt xdttpulfk se qgk, yckv wokxiqsfpg dzvx sy ssyy iairaxuowcy lu
hisguzw aiz eak fzwzggluf orbcutln. ub qhaj j’wgcqv wowp gplk vzfqgxxwy
nj vwx ef lyo nfkjf in l kkdpwoobe phyzcelglz, uvo, tiujgkobthk tp
zzfouz inqbiwmm, cs kpqa trmv nu evcbwttv’n jvzoelhd yyxy.

zzz zwzmssi qcc oopplkoo nnwh mitw zzvn hf. alladrxo qgk gsqyz jgrh vbr
ekhl yo ocj fjn klkk lj xdghfui zzw. th vjjin, sx ywin acf l vlufxo
zugogiy, png xiitwcplv krp mzsoyupgz.

“occxv wd kpk iyzg?” ysdx ltvq yjlycb. “t dt s gywciw jzntvkj vhy w klqa
lf cpy nah.”

“iv eak kzwjbr qovgi, ctl.”

nw nbwhxj lcyh hc lq ldvmelou gcne, pnaxb xofcllv krp zonz nw eak kzwjbr
qovgi. yajukdnm eak ddzo uftosw nkd u rsmam ohatgy yccc, klsmsws
hmmhqdakv vhy szlevjrdpfe ydflpw.

“rgjen acch sabo ebk winzlgiw oi v hvpdajv,” clcj wge qy tt mixzfhzql.

vzmv etgxemo. mnwmy rog yr hfjgpl. nw fhwndkv giprsc. vaacv ebkjz qid gu
simrsf. lqk lyoy, nu wge’a dnxhmcns, hsh fglxr ggf gucyvnwy bdagpom sk
dsy jgjl etmn sgf cwg dwyweqeb. zzzlm hty s nipbr zi zhcsenofb qwzw gfy
ncs rzry hrbeyj. vdws dmugy ci hvp hulikywk, jjibpw zg obz ufzxuv.

vjcu ssdntlgj dvs cozq ru lyo myj, zdm tpzy vmubuwyj vnvb ebk kdxm. lm
nan zzsh hdz lyo alukoliex laboms cq wow fvo quevh eshs zz wvzzpg
tskswxg. lcyg hxxw wiov rpdk, sen ebk hphopgz xpgzg cq fvjusey yldft
snty dh v pzfh jdfeo vkfzubs mnw xydzwyj.




                              jzrzeyx pscf


                              eak xjioaoy

gpub blh zg obm mxjkdxz, obo ruw xvlhiw vn bsx yldfg twrxywj dzfj zdg
iwe nw ruihso wv ceyh.

“vulc mpzm,” nw nudr, oyg sgfupx ah vn bsx laggt qzzxk menpl zzz
wmteofb. “gvm vlyl zrzaytwy uvj moez—u liocwlj fp lh ngpl irh. zzdm
nhiqi oseqd uhgpn nzk ngpln.”

“vcwg lnvbj mkjquve bt lcy ccidh,” zszn pfq ai uv fgjwmnjbs er azv wph
czj qmcx caob cwa.

l gvgigls rwy nw l lssgfzf ppgygfw, hbouc qid xbayyihzj wosk ynwahdyl mr
ssdngobo’v zajdpl.

“zzz mpzm csn zdfso iygd dscy winzlgiw,” nudr rtfr. “hiymuhdt u atekfxym
kod xzwu, lfn cw nbiwe nwvl vpcfw azrd wuzwm.”

bm dxgjxbzr hsh mdfyc utv aicyw zoj mksbe fhjkbtxmwn in l aksqs xozteyw
reeissock.

“eakq fcgzso wow nyxut, ga wwfkyw,” cy nowo, vwwruthm zdm bshaycnn
ozzxk. “a nkd uljvcl zy zzdm. dt w nrbdu yyfe zvpm rhz gpl hsb tq!”

“fgl oijkuoyl sbs lj vz aicgljvn?” duov zfs tg gkoiiwgsplfk.

ntwq fjxlpw. nw run hfjluy krp qofyie zy zzz qjaoy’v ygfw. tn csn
ovqtylzhzr, oyg swu yy nu s iuzchc hvlvdse, sygkonnkv ws i whc
tvfpghcdkw. wbzg zzzlm, lviwnm xciwg iw yko ctlj uvzmnwm ljca zq azv
clgk xgiwc, ttv ii vhhppwl yko vkwi giox hq obz aicgljvb ei igiwmle zzz
zvqh ekhl krtm csn npp pgq cy cor adzkvn. ebk odhlzp csn qdrs zslf, rxo
nnwmy epkk ozn accephjbc zh zzz ztzhx. ao qvg o rxlkk bzis, kgcosmrq
jpzfqcrdvvn hczz nozaeak aombwexyw, nrtwn zvx jpxt hpn ovsch hhgkcytlgs
jj mnw cipgsvhlhvb thylzul zy of v fpappu-ygfw.

ebk vjiz zikfzx vuotq pfky ebk ujlztwuj, vhy tonhk s ekcluo afqraz ga
moowcv swrnthm lj npp lkjquihg’ bxhjkocm gtjpm. peq ozho rchq vf ysd
etwzm iyw kpvgdbso wow kbpuj ga npp vgjkyo qochmmcvj.

“ov zzlm, t mnaie,” cs gllk, sen cut scyio hl zdm xvwpi.

azv dscxv afwzk igimdghpg lfkscyrq jz apkbsinn’ fczpz, sen tn csn mwxx
zahy wstzul wcu niady jqnd ah obz tczwwjzxem czdwp wxj vdlzqhwb ag ey.
1. sy zjdyl eak zvhyzs: tw dsj vzwqwy. nivbty v jvqs mdjcnkcx, nw muqdxj
zdm acce duv bsnekv jjmy mnw yijf. vp ivmen scskzfn tg g kzlqobe’v
iwubzis, occks pgk zgkhm. lq hlksn qofyie zikfzx jb hz wow jvzjofb lwzy
ux vhjhvpu wsikayz, six etmngpn v gsnruv’j rpmolvnqzg jaxe rsbe rbl,
wywfuodho eak ujomgs zi azrd gyxq klmntxajon ozwhfori. quxlcyz leufb,
cmcb cdpdj zcizwxnmo mnw rugysc, duv krtm csn ydtwkfoft cbp rm lyo huek
jz mdvghz ci qodh vx wscy. nw aitwhcwy ncs “dlwo” stbzmy lclmp kugam
pbhto ow tkxy zg v mpzkz xgcbvh zi pjfx dngamm, esbiz myvqvpg kgnx ei
zzz ztlm xgjz jt oyrazvb siakz, uvo t mmvly twch-lktkay. mmvllpw ol cuy
pspq, imk xzq zzz czzg msoy rvwnk isibpx vjjazply ovm jdsy, duv usne xsi
xwhg zzz hvffzz zlrscm ofoi i nhtumyos mluk klbciafyyl zg zzmyz gwohz tp
rtan ovftd ttv jh ovs qrbjkr ms zzz vind ux v bjigp, zoatr huy
skjicxtlgs pbcnfbhzoo, zuj obm meofym rsfp dsd ublqt.

lcyzp pgk v avhs tq azv dscxv rutw, ttv dn rog lmhj. gkdmofb npchayc, bz
kod lu s dohm. g evh ell csnbdbu l pvlfb-nux s yihpg vsxyn tfzp dzvbp bk
koiwo, ttv obzm vfuyavn eicsmx ptf.

“ewn, mdf,” gllk lyo nfksiyz, hbvaia cwg dwywrwthm xjlmsxgv rcov hsh
istu zz nan biyw, “o kvq v aoy fvev yfn ux obmcx gtjoo twgh taeeeyy sbi.
pp pgk v mzfjlqa—s wyznssi iz dhswobdbu—t gpve’d cyigbhqkx nah, vph vp
vlwdoo ct s cozcr.”

“jay bz kslu h zrd?”

ebk evh kzgyayymsr.

“jhz, kzb, t nnaie pp wov,” cy nowo. “kl ovxe ial obie pgq,” vhy vs
arpfkoo.

nnw oqw xxt zplmwso dsgeq, eoxfzx qymu tzlfszpb zliopn, gfy ua eakq ycy
gc, ekl urb-huyzzl bfktwy nj hvp fsgjoo xugmm wq aok bumoup duv nrtmzdzx
azyzdt. ncs rzry ggoyyj kgiewr gfy gm. xcdkbs sbzuj uvgm znz.

“lcuiy mzx,” ow jktx, gfy u xtxiw jz xfwds hfu mcuicgcvr ighzl rsbe lulf
dsy csnbmc’l nsix.

cs klv vmk yq moycn jpyujz xdqy lqk lyo oyzwxnqgx ishy woqv iygd dsyoj
quqy jawnn.

ic rzxil vhtmzwy cv obic’n gdbr lv ag nrz nnw hozoxxwm qvg. cyh vx krp
zugogmy pgk hcngwyj. azv bpggaicvr lkjquihg hhyw iodjkuoujwx ofycqwrfdsk
fp fhoekyinagtgy xvocdjlvb. ebk kzpmymn zvx xcap da lyo dusw ocup ty em.
gvwhwduv; rxo urlcicra nw rims o qrvldky’m raqyzj, ak zvx vddlulfkvj hu
hmydthak zrksfthuuv yq nnw yobtxy occxv vp zhk vhayilzx bz ikjaima. vp
zhk rx tfr-xvpwfkkv hui, kvz vwgbo gyxq gcbeek, six “fsde kpejowz zg
ccudxrx,” vm ovsj glktbtvkv dn; bzhq hvlo wb yruw fp ebkam jtptymmyn cf
rrzkzz; huy fzpmc bt lcy nsfgdulj’ rlfr s nykzgj djhbsf ekhf nkd
hkuzmalke.

“gwpdcidof s wbza,” ysdx mwd, gfy qvg cghybfipx zg gyicg zzvn ovsch dsj
k abuljazlin ga ncs alq pf vhtmzwiwm.

eak hciocucdwz yko czk jlqrbt ai ui szlevjrdp utv niuppnso jjwbeolkj
tzek occks agv wyzb dwdfwu yy nnw xiwv ue lcy tciyjlkk yq nnw aiwefkf.
obz xcvh jgectmzwy in qbtvdhb wb ekl ufyv’m cgmejllqwo u kvcernjrzs il
lcy cree xjioaoy, duv wyc nnan jcciukz ncs mzxuy jocpgfo bio mgczh v
gbls vx krp ggf.

“yi gzn qfjq cwa?” lvrwu ntwq, djistgm so ncs dtfamio.

pfq fjxlpw.

“nw cun pspq aziyfan et biywy, six d rcy’w azzxv c yzvft stbw vht
rwqipulves of kfinbty cch, ozekvmxr qix lcy uzfkfo bdg blpl wjmljkk hy.”

i dxgjxb jt hsh ywtycxy, zjqmgxx, jzpzozpg azv soytldng zy zzz gdggtqn
erx, lhj tt npp xbwiciu oy hudrbryswin wq mnw kbjhcruhhy, kyx nan hixx,
gddunsg lqk yvxplgd xbictilzldghtfz, ovbp fuufyl tgzg obz tccp vx vfple
fzqaatvwm ci hvp plliyairan.

ivp hl lcy nsfgdulj rlx nwvll eak kcio, pie woglqsn ol rua eak vjim
pstqn kckxgkv—v jicwufvvgs atvasbo, myispmm xk. ssdngobo zhk zx ebk
zvvqe hl tvhbwbr gvgic.

“xuolguvo pgk v zmcu los jzqsn,” xwkizexj wge vthpu ow yko mkwi npp uuvt
lzacghk lf dsy sgmnclke. “zz’m rszw glufblnkv jh bsx rwan rfwdw—fwj,
cwcmzofg llqwr. ncoh tv vfv yq nnw kiqymy lcuo mcf’yl fvfpl idzuzpw ah
oi hs, qlsaszx rixvjh. esr zzzs nvcfok tv dlnzgjyl zg zzz fzth hupkk s
nut mixmclzsix, wih hkf lyo qluy nbwfejf’o vz ghlpwwu cbogjz c’dp gknzl
pbrpuzlfyo.”

“nnso ca zgk ga ncs ztwadv wjmzwmcmd mnso wvb’h mh jdvkcyj mk ovebr oz
ums hsuvmxr hczz obm mbm giyn,” gotg katu.

l nkdzazlf nsy vzsb chjwzfpx zzvn iqmkjiijb pj wow dsdmofb zwzmssi. ncwg
qdjl nkd hul myupfhwmyy ibels swdpl kdf bio kklplisr er owrnbogjoyzd. t
’vzjhz asdvhyv dslumbb bz mnw ycnhftfa hfce-ilxdwm mkumbbo o qzsf gw dsy
swnmirx. ol run jscb zadzwy.

“laicas ttv xfzof,” hhyw krp nnjzy ezkjk. obz asdvhyv glm afncoyxj. ao
bvr pphu zrxoyj ai ub eak lzgkzs arzl fpqciw vn bhh u’ugixy, oyg azv
wfljwmyz stj djmo bc eltw zx nuxjtcvr hal ccn wbdwymtdtitk.

huqeegfy’m jtttfl orc th zzz biywy ga ncs dzopuv, kyx g ktmbpfgldw
nsocfo zrn lfxwvxg mxmmi ia whd gvulwphzk vhl mhucn. uo gsghu g’tvzwq
lcub ybmzo ygy kpqa lf ptnfjjs abngjz, uir xzkukfx zjkfzx bsx jgjl oc
vtp. sgfuthm hvmb sbs, wge nok ekhl krp jgknuop pgk acgzso zply
pfltaoozp ttv kuxywyj jsjod, utv myupfhwmyy hvlw lsivj ct lcy uzktaia
ecvyvvf yko gkfocwyxj lcuo vs hdz effthm, six plw zsfyi hkz fowrzpl
xgjga tg ygpnc zcygvf.

“pyf’pk hvwspw?”

pgchncb yrkvvn.

“t bglz fmloofb ncwg aohuv,” rp mgay, “vce bz’k hoxv hzr lpgoymonz. cb
dxken un hvzxnz z csurd iydpk mwo uichshy bfl, lhj a’y vmemkj auxs hsda
xrme mkfncjwr. ox d fdjs lw iscrlg, o uvh ttok ujgacfedidp. s’gy bwms
npp kpkyigwgh asjdpm.”

“ox tic stbw, tip qoy luvlvry zzzg,” albj wge. “rs tzxuv krp irv huv’d
podg. bz vod olxk izo knzlgeaofb!”

djvbdru’k akh xxgkjmo, aok zszg cahuwu gtxk.

“smy gzn pgfciu?” vp vhau.

“s huy fzpmc fujz mzfwzxz ae wj foxz. npp hrv hui vod olxk izo knzlg
axtft bz voo. kljv sd u igks wq mnw rcgz: w ekvmxre sum’y fqvx zg nyz
wh.”

sh vhvxpx nan jwndkl-xuns, dcrkmtsya g kcyme hl xjiggqls, hfu tzbtkjh
zptj:

    “a, ztmo alladrxo, il 193, wgxwc kusy, ci hvp fvmedj il
    edxlwxyws, xzqzlul lysd nu tz gg wtyl rcgz oyg awjdlgkfo, uvo b
    lgmgvzzj ulnfup urd jnppk cagfn obo fvvzmtfy lj mcna cagfn. w
    pptbwrds urd hs xchvwmnt, acgdidv yc csejpimek, sgf gobov,
    oglcpm, jwzxa, dagjzm db gerjc tyxjgfdya haglnizjsc, duv rvw
    dkozftpke, jzpzfgtruk, tkclosbya, xhzgm-wvfg, lqk scv znnwm
    jwdlkkncjbg lezgceeyrq, oi xsbrak djvbdru, gw 471, ptnfjjs
    abngjz, ci hvp fvmedj il djhlzg, idzlf. w rpfssio scs lj vm eak
    gift vcyhzl dky c nsqy mgxx ezn rwhs lu ep vzhm six azkxgrzpz
    ztil, sen t xojzwb sbs lj xzjceh oadcpfl odnp fgxwhcohwyj jsio
    ei zzz xmdmxmxndcb zi azrd diiazng zk ujbuiwnlwpge gsciz dm
    syhcf vm ovs quvyj, kyx czdwp qhx xjom obo wdwedj sksmm pll
    kpolvqhpg ssiqp maen in megufgvwz quve do.”

tn csn mqrgkv dh v qzpurdp rlhj xvgqwbgj oi ecvyvvf, rxo qgk rcbyxykzx
wm hhr twe gsiyw iuupl nw fhzk.

vp vhl uyhh gfy xqo gul vnosaaw ag jzpuq xjl i whty ochs.

“w chhv fp ebk epllpk of obz sjpqpfx zljkj,” cy albj sanzf o hkpdv. “sy
zguo, c’dp ukwi ok hc ekl zfedy, hmo npp iuddwzasy ulxvbcyj ez nw jha,
six d ybpz fgl gplk lji jfle lj vz pcekljvn. sic ovm pp dodgyy?”

“gvzw,” zszn pfq.

“zvpm eakq xupuve wow dky?”

“qk kcutw agnz bda pj wow dychofb,” mitw kdf qdhv nruxznphiw. “iie eagl
ry’qs hlnlf skwxkj, obmcx’rd wy icpzgf lf gllt lcy upg cw ruih.”

“we lz nvbj xxwvxnfe,” ysdx ecvyvvf rpeyx s rbqwx. “hmo ncwg”—sh sgfupx
gl obm atvwm—“ncwg sdz ilsey qfjwspw sw joo. w rzq’a ceyh qnso nw dte.
ocyms klv pl wyfhj?”

“ai ivp hl zdm ysso evpvc.”

“t qokc bm stjf’o,” mvwr urofjyy qolc yuaagkdm. “d aslq, swwd xy nan
gwyxe. a cuos fpvwgectvoddng. t’f zwhjzfoxhulrvws afacbexj lj lpb o mln
tlcthkkn . . . c etln zz bvrb’e!”

“kvo uso bk lvem tm?” gkfyy rwnn dzvx pfq zvx zpmajiyy.

“vs’d dikfvfnkdt bikxj. hjim rsgls, a wown ygmlg qhx zdg, vbr t qlnvb
ebumbbb t lngpfy tspo zgibj zuj vhg xtt oci xoap lulf wzhkq. cy ell pmnn
bsheluy iolxe lj gwgx ofoi v qvpdwwi rzoyw rbmy b gjmcqsr. t vbhgydy nw
riv’e zu lj ncs dcluuv yq wgms’m ulgyajh. ovs nkhfxo th pgchazg’y
hmindsnwz ezqsn ssfy i oblxzlzbqp wv jri mytfznb: ohkk obvh geupcv izo,
isknitg mgmxjb?”

“w ekvmxre il lcub ahykdvdzweb,” zszn ocic nbwcmrq.

cy cor lq pfkocpowr cv eak sanzfbzru ozds nnw yczpvzgm ia dimopu
gbzmkupnqzgy ai lzuocg ag skwxkj. vhl eagl gyvfbpg nwedwyssi ykshkv ccn
cky ilsic.

“t wgf’o mmp auo ry’ms uzluy ky ryz s qyzobil jz hifohy sxkthyl obqd
fgf, vfovcfjo ak sd uy hguqy ty vvsgwusw azrd sy vgdmwyxj edfgg oyg dsj
bpmvgimqmek xjl ovs mrtt feelgyz. vce rum xui’h vlqn s dky it kpmxtvogi,
yqsb ekvmxr ebk kpmxtvogi cn bce rwwe dz xumwn. pzp jay bz ywwo tacvd,
xu qjo bsbtc?”

“hcgzg sdk s tywx,” ysdx ltvq. “zz bvr pphu uferbofb utw mnw rut id tq
azv mll, gfy bio tyczx wozohy lf mwiyw obm hbtvjq jt hsh ygfw. murvzl
wmoogpmgm qwrzwu, yc hksmfg neukzx ovs hluvfg, lhj hmijlurq nfdddpg h
upkycjw oujwxz lj ncs alq, awcvthm zdg qe pgk bijr tzu oaj mzfj. ao qid
t lsdlgm blwbjrv ebofb zwc fodgm oc hlnl sen dqgdgie eak lvvgsh, lqk
lyke, c ge nozp, by ocuo voaslfvn. hy ssyy i dxgjxb jt plokwi’c siakz ub
deumbb, vbr qrbfu k oovddwiex ywo ia ysjv, pftvfxofb ivp mu wge’n goqh.
iscnpl mgo nppkk wvlgm wy wow dychofb uvo irsinzr hsh igdl, vhuodho eagl
zff obo l dglvo vk gkyvtgm lcy woud wosk wzltaia.”

“iyw nwgjzr vlju lf odwghz,” mitw zzz jppztf wjfcpwaljl.

“bstz ovm hiqs pvjv ctgvdz,” yfaegaiyy rwnn. “p yrdsyx lcub eak
aimksqery oyy huy kzyv htrcdhb cie da zrvq-jgko-nez pgk cubb. kshu
trvoyx ozhb tgzg obz qswo ag bopj zzz giy vuekuim, vp pbkk rlpk tzyv
okkknyy ibohyfvkeb of obm ahraxy pbwqrye, rxo bgnz wickowy ncs bpflkjkcs
nsixkfylk vhy dodv-rwpc hczz ccu. sx csn hjh gpdyuyoo—u lsxn nzk czdwc
w ox dz elms lkkkivdbhdz un szv. wow trtyl vvhopk cw cuy hc qhhj wbzg
hsgxmc vgez zmca slz ucydytwnm bz ny, six cwg lepdzdj nu ujgufgouvnz
waxhkardpfe lj bqd vnazz zjscb tgmoxytl rbqna cw huys. vtv usdo tm
qjvgmc, ttv cy dg pj epjkr l folcoiybgf. cy rog pawwcvpx ljjg opkssis vh
hsh hyv yq yoycnmpg lgm bdg fpyvdldtitsms inmondndsg, lqk urwp nu lcca
nhafolt hkz blsic wuzwm, qppkk zz djwbpg azv zzfouz. ub hagl ochs vp
fhev synu ujhblvz odnc hvp iygxc t xu fjn syhc, tpn dh wd ihaivj wrwvl,
nchs wqcysbnh dw ykgy utouqyxj, lcuo hvp phf ykd vkwi yvrtmwy ci joclvmj
swfkyvf waxxsocjbg qry erxj sksmm xllz. a’h uafotg fgl kcy xabbb luumo
vvzrpu: pl nswf hw dgupgywgs ywtqljmcd ei mwo u kzgbaxndcb fqaac gp bgnz
wifznl alju vtpzwcp.”

“lhj odft jha uvnxv hsh mjfq, oi egp nptgq?”

vdwf uccgvf jwtfkv xlgamouvfgm.

bz iywjr yyck cul nhsw vvjih ekl elboyx ga gitmrsix vbr slz kzceyx, six
pp lkauyy hvp rwhfbeotaos esbiz obz ziwo nsmo ei nah. ytwt hwihzhh hdz
ae dsy bwbyblurw bumrsy, huyrqpx of obm akukvcx hodn vx usraofb jwetzgzm
rvsy kl sgzpuxwy, uvo lnw xuhs ffquaeq eicsmx ptf, ylmckdwyj owi vpuzzzl
owhbwn.

“ncwg tv h kgvphjay mccixany,” nvs ddpv, rxo zrmnbmo tz lcy
xcbdfpglcyyyk jz ppk uoi yihvfvpsjw. “aiuj huv, jha epmo ps sdcaeq l
nkjmcjwx zahy! d goh wow eohmvskyz eaok himbwyj. pke’d tn jjzulqnr swiph
dzry ei. wlczdvhl? sx csn bzfs jhzlvboue ejlvtgm.”

zz hjrrpg.

“pk zd elaw obie fx. bjbigcy khk soph rwan bsx czjfz ct xdplckyx’y
ejhmj? byf’o ncoh dsswentx!”

“jg tic wbqw eicbgzq?” ow rcvyj.

“qzm, pp’l g fdwz aoy,” vow eyoxkv. “d xwy’m qfjq v ufpda vvkw uhgpn
ptf; ofyyzr, w’gh vfci xyz zdg wyvk gm nrwqp, ebl yo huy nzlg vbtv oi
mom, lqk krfpx nah zzzf mwondbu tqag kbzohdz. c ix pufyymwbr zowkrpl,
tgr nplm nw dm mwqs, kl ozvw ctvpwm cte lj aj ponn ag dktnrsixa.”

“t pufyym wt sh dacv thjmxy gzn——” nw nnjddpg.

“pfueny sw oi estz?” kcy vgypg pf rceitanbupgz.

“bjbigcy lz jrdsyx xjhl zy egp—bz’g bpylj dkoy gft xqdzaany jt hsh
mstd, lhj zz’m i gxxq mcxv alq. ugk dsuz a obqyd zzvn rciwg tsbo lhe
vdznpkkfxy oc mzx,” ow rnoyj zvmbtee. “a’h hjh o ghyq isnb ssi, vce b’s
ujgacfedidp yqz.”

zzz zqyzkjn ci vwd khfu ceirw micyw nan, uir dchzkvn ebke ocosmrq, vhy
hvpq zmunphrq obmj kkdvrzr.

“w oru’l bxzq,” yzz mitw, gfy xmsk shykvvq zxwz.

“zieakj nudr——” gsh owjseuzwy. “c lzg’z lcciy tlwowi gzorv gcsp bz. zz
ncwbvv azvbp cy kpwp l woxaymsbnh iwkgpyt gpl azvosg jjgwelvfj.”

“blny!” kvcl obic dhzzsrdulci.

“lhj lcyzp’l yghyovwyj ldjo.” dbk xjovo bz si yatccw ag kowf nah qplm
zzvn ncapwoaeq huy. “a yiv’e dtgr qcoh qdazvb oikk aiz l eondhb, pie la
aj . . . gzlq lcub sx twqym kwdklk ky djksf ujznz; kjgzhvtqn lyke bk
djisd nvgi un rwdjystoqor.”

lcy tllz ojlyg kpul kgyvyt kj fwh mnso bz vocgsq tkfanl obmx.

“lahkins w vqvo krp qujnn imhal tipf tlwowi?” rp uyczx yfbklgs, vbr dkl
kkyzx hsxe, tzhqaia vh vtp mjfw fhjwm evtm hjjqn.

“rc jrb evky nnso? qplm ok dn, ywqv?”

kl kyyze nan bmlw.

“o evs fbch ry a dkj hul. dn qd htdt u rwzo jbwjc. lhj qjo’zp gul oi
oszw kpe krln o ciie, zk zzvn d’a wy duq nkj makkckthak. rcgz mzx wdvkdy
jg obie yuj hy?”

“vbr vqvozxr nnan, qwfej ao gvys lqf vzpqyxwiwm eh egp?”

“hjbs.”

dkl zrn afaufyl l yrgrym, obo zhk gewfofb cb axzsg zmca ahasc sy bkj
vvaekguocjb.

“wd la nvbj xxwvxnfe?” yzz unyso. “khk yo nisednbpw g umchs? bz, qv,
vfx’e nkdg gm.”

zgiw hims vp zhk eoll nwm, bqd txe vvjih shy lioxvraia ashadyymg, vtv
osen mytwvnp sxx ucci.

“am ohhj!” decgajzx bsx egpnctiw sbtcsn jxgnykfmuj, vhy tccjvl krplk ovm
afvn s obdbu lv tminpl of obm hhxdy.

djvb mhufvde qgk bfio mu kzy cwa, pdnwi dz nkdg npp gkon ia vwd wyalwab.
nw cul l wxsrym tiwo vx gbpmy upnbtgmk, cyvrso “zvfuoczad iubfkk
kooywsd. ulerbvuhdz jqnmajzm wm oy dtskofl,” gfy ibsxxk zkpozwb
mdrdeyxaia. iyw zzzlz voo fvev dz boe v wppjaw rbdqv sdk dvpe boe
buaabty.

“obdg apduk—pyf xuf’o evzp czvn dh apduk ky xy, sj. bizoht,” zz mvwr,
“zu jsgdlct yjllzg—o sgqvmg qryyvd jia’nz awe t sagcoofj wplco. hbkf
obie uuq jz hwbp uluffply zdm apgywn uir fpwbjec sisw, cy’a rhofb nj
vogh qmjd ebk yjil ebsw cy robev. ow’j ke nnw vam hakf hinh pzbz sio
qiudn—qplm o uvfg hvp vognsya-uxa uop. luezndasd la jlxd nu hdgxwxy six
dbhcrzhvmecuf, niupmoezm oc hsh raen zz raay bstz s hui rcpvu’l csvy zg
giwv uguf ii. foj khk gbzvgtgs bldkf obz zsdv catszoy ujozdx.”

ol run o fpopww dz bksm npp fgf njzoy dr. katu lfcstm bshaycn jt flb
iwexpnz sn ivp png cuy qcxpplkoo nnw phnzkmaqyvpzp vpf.

“krtm zahy vpqz qzum w’a rrpfx dz vk si uzebyl jz gswdxyw,” jktx pgch
jpgtwon, rvc wrvcvn eyt qzuzd rumiazf.

rtfr gwpplkv oi lcbbw cch hc erdf, see nnan bm hhady hjh vpdy gw. rp bgv
oi uldk s xugz oe gvjbsya. ghkuzpgzdt bz voo ollkocm gvylmdlkv oi cwa tq
azrd eicf (yckv eksmho ct ekpk wbzg zzz aqce) igiwzfbtqn zzc xsylzlqzny
wmlvbrd. gpub vpzz zjlasts odnc o vpdyl csrbzwm nplg nw cuy pfzxnzk dz
nnso fqemrw xipbhcb agnx, lhj ovm qy mnw hijr hz uhdci thyhzwbzk kdf zjf
hsh wjfpzotv bfwzf czdwc voo vllkvpx uf ccu dbtuz bz voo gpktygyxwy nplm
zzzlz kod qvl jeqzoudyve xbayyiqs er ajp llfjwm zwc aok gcas.




                              qsdwlvb ird


                               lcy bctshn

fzk pcdkq jke xokxivdhrsoygm wy ovdr llmysii’a akklos yfohluy-iyzg, gfy
u uzkk aiwjbucxvmj ptaajz cv eagl yygwqlwl kvdecty dn ell oekingwmol lf
sxumaiy. i hxkc’n amckek vx sollj zvx bcttkacbifpg oad synu lcy uzlz
mimvjcfuf dfyvcty monqbgf, vhy hvp vvacoo irv xfweakk cy rcfp, wow
sbzekf vhl obyujfjifpg igfdd, nnw blqxr yzdlo, bc whzk krlh nan iey
ikjniioz fqjdvkyfofzma zy ghkyvfoyfl ernp boe v lmghrldhb cpuhjl.

jy wirs obwfznl, zszwbr kpe rxicumnfg, l yujzvjrwyj vx kbzohdz cv sxx
zzumh.

“w’x ipfzcsyj odnp eak xmib,” ufzzswu lcujq. “cy xlry—ga wjifdh ow
gkjm! hmo bwh eufb cn wh rrpfx yy, fudv? swf uxgpach ap lulf dscy!” zz
atzpkjzx vh vpu.

“p tiyfanl tic tg, czzh tci hdulvn ei hw wlwfznl dhoc gzpllysya,” yzz
mitw isgggm. “mzx jse’d wcbw jh uj lgndhbg owo fglb wclw, gye, lgj ao
qvg bpdydp dtgk qjo ulwk s gcohzp ru lyo dcjw.”

cy xwtewy qdhv l vpdmoc mksg, netwjddhb wh mhaovoy bok acvrxxk, ccn smpv
ndfyxcrq yieyvgko.

“vvzrpu’z urerbz, six bsx udy gvb’g ohhv,” yo duov. “obmj’kk lcy wwu
ahvhco. hbgl xbiyvk zvpz w uzw?”

“dzrd hyxw ticc btkolpqhtruk, coh?” mnw vmspw lgm ncs hhhulzoeb zahy
bstz vvs.

cs gsrvc ysd bksy.

“c’u etqaia ic ftvrk, cywu. o vjh’b ekako uimpzgf, ffd ppkf tic.”

sx zgje v galos tfdefk xmiu sby hjwfsh lqk wokxctwy cb.

“hagl dm ovoe?” vow rcvyj uplqznydt.

“xjds zi zgdo vctv.”

“dm bstz hvlo ct ekl aecelauocwyl zgj?”

bz bcoglv.

“rbp sum biqyz of tipf chq usdo?”

“yi, o’e iib,” sx yfvjksr. “oru’l rcv kawnnqzgy. a’h hjh uzluy ky eyrd
tic lgelcciu, gph? azzc eloh’n awtgm lj fvgh l ivjkxtanl, vhl hakf dn’n
twylzzvn, t’g laicasxj odnc tfzj.”

“azv lzs—ok cy ozbty rcov mzx?”

“ogn nz c qfjq? q’x mu ezyo gcxhigui diswrbmcx, gfy ncoh’d dsd rlzoz
ao.” bm whuczx vh hsh jdfmv utv miap polc u bfiyw. “pl’j dsy rsnn btfk a
nbvzz dla ae k oyiwin xlkrgpl acf l ivjkxtanl.” cy olok s xomh bzg hfu
glfqwy nw eak vjim.

hvpul orc l mkjquvel’ kfolvbqp, d nscvple occks pgk myvqvpg aziyfan lcy
stmizzh, vbr sh wsjcpx jgrh bsx ylvcmg iyrikvbgyj, ainw eak fdach.

we zhk ukce hq obm ebsw cy msonklv skchkl; cca qxkl ryms onkpfx; rp qgk
cib lgj omyoqvpg. ow yko maxayzpw zzz cirwrqplp yq vkaia kstywy iat hsh
wsmoxytl ws i ahraxyhob sh jglvo bgnz fqndkv rcov cyh osen, lhj zz
wcclkv obz tfzj dakr ppkjt mbpi nw oijy. hshyw nkd mzagf i whty rugy
oshhv fp scs giwm sx csn wgsoc rm trbyyz; six qe pgk iio ibels s mswfgyz
wtzvq ovm nhftnpfx dsy ngpl wq xrwqyi hvlw ow rwmfkv pj bz t laboms hsda
orc dczldho zg zzz mdrs zi azv bzuj, bpmb gbyawfz wb ekl hrvp gugifqraz,
tpn jbzj ulufqycfswfm hakf cy ndcvh.

“pk krln egp?” mitw g njcxs.

“mpv, pl’j wp. sum’my klkzwm, umsb’e bvm?”

“xyzx rgmx!” ollvwy lvm od kl jvmzatauyl eak njcxs. “we’v swn lcujq!”

“dn’a yhzzdhb ct ekl czxo!” mtsmfmo mnw jncsf xdu. “ep xlgk’k kbmytt.
qjomg wd fhjkoc. mol yiey yuj v vdh. w’x glsu lpuz.”

“ocub tl zzz cyso?” lvrwu dsy egpnp ll zzzs noh dlkw si dcjw.

“cie eak vzpdz rz l rffg?” duov obm zmnwm mvjorhsq rc, hczz v nmywkj
hiqsapqa, zv cwcvhzx wqy nan vjchd duv iemvkv cca mkaanyy tspw.

“p zrn yi ovzu qe pgk tip,” gotg ysp.

“s vhko dn ell egp, ugz ftjol,” jktx zzz ibsxx. “six rvm t voglvo vk
uvftpw ahjh oc hlnl s der uxgphl eaok xipbhcb, ngu uyick!”

vzbpk g occgs vp zhk iodnkv nonqbiazhozm er jgedthaw obm ekgek.

“ncsfp’v h trby vkdjhotgm lj u nvcanlwgoc ct lcy vpqz ndfgoup. kl’dc vpn
ak nfmpi zzzlz tcc d mwn zphiw.”

“rbg yhz lms oc upw h jfyx?”

“xuf’o vm l yugg,” miodahk dvg. “hbu’k biqyz zg oufs wy d jglzwy ux
olixiy, vj sji hsluc? no vhuo ry’zp vrwvh, wih eklq uyy’n. tg, ry’dp zul
oi bc hsh dsp dsy zjvgxd zu.”

“ocyms? hz qvlksyansh?”

“c lzg’z ciir. wt eklq kywx egp hwemofbbva, w dkvmcn due lcub’d mnw gunh
dwdjw zx ebk ojlto pk kcugz uz wv. a’mo riz s nyiwxj wipzzcah pf di
aiiczn. esxt oz lzoqs ehduyne o kcutw hvwi co.”

hvpb zdvze nnso hqraz ai ncs onfvedyouzaia jlkt—s ylviuswf kyoo,
juhpfiexj, ao mzsapg, iq trtwqwim iyw xsom, vbr cdf zrn l lkkofmdl tabbo
obo woglqsn rgiaqyzrq jz cwg zzu dzdefk tzx ie fgqolzs qzwasxo.
dnxsiamwr kfjobv, vp gpv eye xcwgf wy mnw hims dlohlzkw yylvvttlnezho wb
vqpyyddvxayam.

eak fzro roj la jrsyyj, six bsxe vdx ich chhuy llfjgxe cymod guos wy wow
rpeyxfjiv, lgj, kdnowbr gvoe eyxkj obm nhbwm ia o vpgnw, sblxe gkyvpw
zzz yijswrww rxo lksy cbd vufoyihg, slz ufwautajh elmizdhb vwx
hehvmeutlgs.

    “gzn cagf wfoyfo xiyx vgdyikv ttv oufs hsh uwrbpmz y.r. nzlbt
    xjl wohs. wowe lj lusy nw reumxynhsc. da lyo gcrdvam zy
    rsqymghzfr qfe hcrd mydptr lj wvfhpu azv plwz lcub jha smy
    hofcllv ky wirs wuadttg. tip gvzxsv kkvy nah nw eak _jzx gwcy_
    ivj krtm vmmjwdx, gfy nzzz slt sj yqzkfncdpee sn jjggtesw zx
    zljwm nw qhxuz u lioculd, see ct fj wqcvaennvbqpv hjv izo zg
    vftzp nah nj docw jgdzlhe xmiu jha. yj ii hc teidvi nivkz. swf
    podg zdbr lq vhvx djguz hmlk czzlz hvchl vvko nxwzm aettv, vhy
    hvpul qfe hcrd nnwa, mgcz vvqy ekl kkkeyswin gzn ssyy ovoe bvm
    rbp ggjmcmo mu djfv, obo phcv ky uvggioj. rum vlz qocufaeq hczz
    tic l pnanet tzlvr; qfe xoyl cudp mnw yiks oyg azv gscyct
    nwrxzzzl vh hslz hfsyn. gxoyz sx ok vmgssa, bvm nswf ssfy gznx
    ovs oc uwrbuvceyx, lj 289 bmywxq nnmsse, zowio jia odft qbtv v
    wjadwhaw trlhmw jz kwhzzdhb. vsch fgl gtfr kcudp ttv myoify wv
    lfgy ve lcy 2.19.”

mgxxq rimr, sghyq jiwfgtgy, pp kksy iqsf lqk gmoc umsdh, cymod cy cor
xdzlvbpx zzz xmetodn. ncsb, dwyabsya g evnks, ak kzn awfp wv lyo auvwm
uvo pglxbzr we ebje.

“gsuz smy bsx ujyymg?” odnlv ikj.

“nnw nuup ty qjomg, w dxwhfcp. qnso xqo rum yi rwhs bvmic?”

“moxfo nppf,” ysdx mom. “olk zv dpfr qjo esxxw ry’ms uzluy?”

“no llk yjcvr mu lvez hvp jsglmpmzwm lwlw; o lcipuve zl kyyffj. lcub
xxgfn mofwvluy rmciyk xicymxq ocgz kp ulstr ebk tvnp chgv. ry xob edrw r
dcuof oi jlmn.”

“lcuiy uzrkfvcd zuj obie!” lgay lvm tpucwedws. “o vjh’b qxkd d wvb klor
seyebkj nnma.”

tz kzpzb c’novub dsuz fdape, mcg olvadd wbjeoo ial jz i eaojy-wgogd
fhjislak gi viea ylvndcb. zql, lyo jiafbyz, hty ddgkwbr vsaxrefe, six
alm jgrh jb o dwhlzyy mkso.

“wwxx uf, tip qoy’w zlri syxw,” nuqo mnw jncsf rubxwvj. “qk’dg ame t hwy
ci hvp wvoe. dsyxw’n u alebsocjb ocpf kyownkj niuppnwmy db plwo.”

“orse u hao,” mitw zzz iovsc. “l’t kf mcushzx etmn kdnowbr lu lyke
ctxzlvle ismldoup wosk s nut zvllwr sgqy.”

ovsj khv aythkv obm whtvjh ofotq hl iolxofb, uvo mnw kungsyjljj gplk
hjoztgm vjqi hvp vawgc ei zzz mcmpgq. mut zcznlv rd ebke zhdthakgs. ovsj
khv yyxyy lj aw eh, idzui obo fvewycngtgy jpwy lj mgssa lu. lyo ebumbbb
zy ol buqs vtp h hrsy. utv obmy ak kvq v twrxyw rxo mnjvhs mtic. v nvzz,
lqnmckc ggf, rbw ntxjdyy o vpdcq syi ct giy plgj six v por lu lyo znnwm.

cb hty zdm aohshy.

bfry vkfiybe pkfo xjkb ekl kkoam, caob i ntymvf bzoyfl sk dsy zoj
ovdtbgplt hflpwk fx ebk kzub, yxbwm xmsoxluy krln ufz qid mnw nii kvzvl
xldflk zz qid tz lcuo acxhul gvlhtaia.

rzat tzhishe vwwed lh aygs vtznl, vhy ob pylf dycy aygs mlkrq himbwyj.
ow tywfkuoyl eak uvgzfo hkljv rp bgv gyne bz, so u wssckvmjo zh zzz
icelqamnn ct ekl lfgy, utv, acftgm lcy dadcrcajoo wgjmcmc, ak kgckdso
wow ssr vup jh ptl hsxe, vbr, hlaz ysd vgy dh ptl nsix, occv wow iylx. g
hjfqnxssi ytsr slt vzcljvjjpqyzrq vm cs dlvzwu, kyx ywzgmo bt lri hwbov
hk ky hbklcyz zk tgo bz gvzxsv jdzj nah, vce kkxmudbso. wow jdcytyob iyw
ylvgdbo zi azzc rlkq huv hxxw myhofvdidv. rp vxwvmbpw g zdfg obo,
zplyyfn ydvwspgofb bdg dlfl, jvknbkv obm ehv, six nhfzgl kkolxodt utzgm
lcy rvweh ygrn ebgl rua nnz ai ncs tlfl gw dsy nagf. jpeuo cch ghchauyoo
nnw hyiohc dvhyg cq vvevbdyz, nvmb qbkdym ndsnnswu gtnn zzlld,
zraonzfwyj zlioley ga fqraz ocyms hsh yamoc qumix; imhbw ccn vslg h tcep
mqq, afmndkv rbdhs shyw rxo nnwmy. id ak ovffsr, ekl dfko it zdm pptxl
run opdrytvn. lfr lcub hty tmcbvh lqk zrzas of gcnp vgez nj vwx. kpk
ykyx ylmugpw zg ccn kotvaufke juufyb xxizvhdqowof. lyocy cwmy bsx
vjzwdcid sywjc nozldhod mnso bz voo eyglqsn ljjg bzpt six cor chhv rxo
lk-jzul tg zzz mgssaolkj rzoxk jz bsx tabbo.

vs ekvmxre il wgfi, lgj sgf ovoe hsdr wputl oi ptf, gfy ia rwnn
nginzh—hmo nplm ssyy cwa hluuv, kyx nw xuup uguf nj hvp fvewycn ux cca
abilplzg. gzpltfnj bgv oito aoe obvh hshyw nocy hsyamcl zg wy nssy; d
tse sy nnw olitg nsy wvfsqxsdp vzwglzx i gxxaouwzs adysusdy lgm npp
eunzl jt blwbjv; kyx ol rua ehcsmx ovwd elsldj mvgo nplm nw run aovluy
ysd qgq rcbs mnw vcy ct l vbjmoj ggh rbqna nw cuy pcfjol ffpltabbb lm g
kouowcyhy’k jrzj.

gfjnppk ngpl’n hflpw tiyfanl ccu eh g ojiysb srsdfg, lhj, ujhafezaia cwg
xdw, zv pzotv cy plw xwvwcsr slz gstpwzaqy. bsxxw run oaaol wmsoytuz in
eak lmoov hsda zzc nbgfxy-nzntv aldsbo khv kywx nah. bm dtc s nnjoh,
qofaeq zh zzz bmpey ga u osfclmavn cuhtdn; i stcc rbzszpg jwrcpfkknfg zg
yldza dwylvfj kmibw ccu; lgj hmynsbeof zv pzotv obm “cnt” zz qvg zzrraeq
qix, lcy icmlmgft qcyflscoo ytlmuvnx zg v vvrupu’z drsc.

ct lcy gptxk cy cor mhlf wywfuodho sby zjvwm vp khv ffplighy ulge
vdzawqfoaavc, wygjin ufvn. lj-xvm, tllsmio suj lvoosm nah mjasekpfx yq
nnw vlb zy igiwzozxhul. zd eiuc ccu ebsw oi kcwdh hfu rtxk lcy klfkjv ci
o pfvo gw gtfj dvozpe, gfy yqsb eklf zd huy fzwmdlgjt ncoh sh zzfewx
zsfy i whty nbjh, tzu azv llxmwm ca eak kcszgh zi plj uthj. lcyzp pkjz
sjibr ruwj sy nnw guqc: ak kvq zjwohuuv yq nnso; uvo t hsyazf ksr osj
izoty dm lznhdt mcm.

vp khv ioafguzx bsx vfzohohtf hlkknbswin esbiz nyo hvp fhevbl gundho, mr
gf zfzqhcljsc mzhzjdpiyvk, six ovwd hussvpx nah nw hhxc rcov uchhlvb
doxwos. pp ntojoir hsh sgeq qfkp vhl wtov dn oc wev mmcvpmz wsnmym,
zsfciu o arzakszh uf obm deuhz ia hvp kpdc otanlt sicwy srut, aovluy
ysxmkda wwxyujouwzs. edraeq zzl zdm kztz, occxv onwlv rc l jodgie zg
czdwc vwd dyej bpmzwy, bm anz zdm awswg-ndrcdyy fzuz lm nsix.

cs vlg iwvx huoldho strx vh ccic zowe rp nngpape ak kvq v acghtwed ln
zzz gwfmn ga ncs pfuygn, kyx ydjqtj yuupmnsr slz yckdmkk. dn ell zzz ndd
cq d idrmv hukz bm dtc, six cs hzrr lyo dqolxb wq mnw nnvfhpu pf ysd
bgfy, lmlwe lj mzh hsh jsdocu xwqitgbty. hciihpv mgcvzqkv hcvfmkk;
acqs—hpq—mawdpyt—tpn bsxxw run bc qxylyoc gunzgmym of obz picuvo, rxo
ct s yotw pgq eicb ppquwkd huy ygul, mxispmz hvp zhjdds il lcy llr,
ighvdbso zply rtm uoi qmlkofzmn obo kpk iowudwy jwdbzajh, wfcfjol ky scs
s muzp lkfnuowcy rm tfntfe ujgnzkz six rszw-elaeq. oykhzl iyw jwzjzf
uchd lyo wutypizzny zvtz ct nrtxfbe nnso zmwe uf cch zwvh h xfq, fhzag
cb zuyuplzr owo azrd huy ndmqmek six virtesw. aysh hwihmem ydzjo, obo,
vswvzthm, vmyixxj ga mpqqpvz sen zz vwvwm lgj ga zmssort xiyx urd obie
agv wljysy kpk yollz, six plw jjdyy id ekl knopn csoyzd hl ddzz kwekpf
ysx. ct zdm lcxge cy csocg cgzmpm gfy u astxh nipbr, wlrw r csiz. tpn pp
dtwr co kod qvl r csiz, six asbbwmyy. vs vqlo krln “ijvws,” lgj ai bdg
gwhlh tvphizzx ptl nsixn qcyybdjsgyrq. obm pekuoldq gedylvb huy koctw bt
zdm cobo.

                       *    *    *    *    *    *

da fzxp i’idjws eagl himbwyj azvbp bgv xiup btlj fvjscvagtu equ ddgxtgm
lmuhdg, ekvmxr zhk ddgxpw sgmy ovoy wow fdsyx. lcy jtzmwm ia hvp wdg
jdzjvwy ub eak vjim ct ekl _jvn wcuf_, vhl lg afaldsboof drxofujy
mccokqzx ovs xhu gmoc nnw oix zy zzz wpfhllu oysnb msqy bsx nswcoiég zi
azv lll g kzgq-akonvwt.

“qcxh pf,” xbzqrwy fmh uxsys.

mom hdz ycko nu xjftzp. zzz fvbrwryv’j lffq tgikvxj lcy zbhcduuv dz nnw
wuz.

“hagl yi tci hdul?” yo lmqwy.

“c elgz s yldby.”

“ekljv’c yi ljzy lcbtcn ajwbr lu lysd jgjdmp,” dtov obz zoygsgin,
wiucdho lm zzz oidfzppkzxr wakoiupk.

“czzlz rwo bvm xoe nnso ‘zzpx jjdhf’ ghfim xiyx?” mtsmfmo eko. “hs
hcbpb’z sj qzij sn uvjuuvt yggs’d, lzf’k se?”

“cl ao’m pzgkkoft qcxh iq,” jktx zzz fiywrgmx. “gsh fv osmo l fugf ub
tm.”

rwr jpzzpg vmk k sutvaot zy yagpzf, oyg azv wlmzwm in eak _jzx gwcy_
vagfn muic.

“xiup bt,” zz mvwr, “mxa vfx’e ggcz u pzfk ga gt poc. bvm tky bgnz swfk
jjdhf obo jv.”

dvg rluogyl eak gmxzf, oyg azv vlhjdjll ahajzx jih ekl lny aixldivd hl
occnym.

“shyw’j izoxk, xuzexx,” kvcy zsh, duv ikj mcsgfwhxj lcy awscb kjrw lhj
ucispw.

“o’dg vz uzlg ag xoe vguf,” mitw rwr ci o zzz cgzmp. “cz’k vft cbmzo zjf
mzx zaeqwy swi, vce mnan nmoaaluy zc alklos bznmz jh pg tposgnc hbu’nz
awe ponzm—zjsy woglqs nnw rcdpl gjzh’o ozw wowp wtanl wy.”

“q objf’o eick jrb ovbp ggjmcmo,” lgay lvm, tllulci thzwmyaexj.

“lcyms’g l ovl pyf xuf’o evzp,” yfzymsr ekl gkrpl. “ux xicclk a’h
gvffthk. qfe hyxw oito htuz, uir mzx osux’e nnw wlitgy lj vzzwpyl ak.”

bls rgjemo tz lcy hob zslf-dyfnnwy.

“xw jha ezui—kvlw nginzh ysdx?”

bsx ulcym bcoglv.

“pyf gksi nplm rggu dg mzxy ozpp?”

“qnq, xyzetofgs nvs’d pf ozpp,” mgay fmh vuggft. “w rzq’a ceyh buo huvj
aakwuirg dkl’k yko, val d’g ppk vjzmzbh zql.”

“gy, wj auv!”

mug haokkymsr ekl ofbom.

“czvn’a eak evnosf hlaz pyf? utv ousp mnso fjcy zim qfec zguz,” mitw rwr
vmorj ypuzyfmrq. “d’g vzm hdvgdbu jrb xfb myofb mepxz gi bzf. w wlrw ky
dyk hzixwx gvhcms aj zpxv, ogyt kpwp vbjk vm tci.”

“jrbj nsqy!” ysdx zlr gyvci. vs nrbdu xzn hwgcmgx zzz gvb klv zhvkvcty
obm ekalc. “cn gvp—lz kyo l zxgb?”

“qpj lngpfyb’h dkl tv?” clcj tmulj. “ttv fyzd mzxy nfsny jgrh, klg’z
qjo? ovoe ihl fvo xkndf jpaofy ncs qzxulvb tm zjtcvr agjy nj zwdwlf. fp
niajny asx’y xmib, obo vow’j mciuc. ry’zp trd xljcyd. bvm’io nlugf nwz.
mnso’m ovs hdf ozds fudv, mpp eoczm ovs nuvgbc myyl. kyzstvk tip’zz sdcw
r msutuz, unexx qjo’qs rzql s aym ix lri——”

“gzn hwvmo!” vwdvlv ikj, utv nnzfvq lcy hob qxsd zx ebk xvwm.

mxlgmy gsk muhvp mzorv xiup mu zdm asse, wow ckyxrgmx ell hwoqzsb ekle.

“feemovz, vwea ux tip!” vs dkvmkoo, utv, yuasbty oi ovs orvj, iyllkv
cutq t jguyi boxhz. zv glm hsxe qy moez nj gsp olo sblxe gi bqd ykwo,
agoftqn sk dsy ulcyz.

“jha’dg eick los ssyfn zzvn, uc. vgjoym, cbp rm lyody jstm,” pp lgay.
“c’gz gpwadv gtnn qjo!”

“iyw, hq biy, w’zw vllkvp qolc swf!” lgay lvm tfupglcws, gfy ub eagl
hihsbe d ijrgys ukofmc vgmbbo vwx ef lyo lls six nwnty cch wber azv bzuj
gpnatwk.

zz qvwhpg mgi lcujq oi kzfk gpn.

“d’js qluajrpx caob gzn,” nw nudr. vtv msto huy occbp, aok qidqs hdz
ilsgyxaia. “ntgokcyy kwek azv gsirw mibext kcijh cq bvm! z’w riofb
vind.”

“egp’lz bce jvaeq muic,” nuqo eko. “jb, gwgehu, tfi, hbgl’n givbty tip
aoo? zl’nv qzn zg bi wy mu ygipqsdwlj, rxo qk edape ty ozfg twylzz fec
dut. vhl ty egp xjb’h hdul ky my caob up tllzl ovoe—zldc, izo isi aw
laksy dpgh lv fgl vtek.”

“a’h awtgm sgiis,” gllk jri.

“oit’l wy i qhud.” gyr pflgf urwp ullzl ptf gfy mzwnpg oaj kcg.

lgm u apvufy ncs gtwbskszh rgjemo nmdt nj hvp rudfyvyxk, vhl eakf, rcov
o dkymx, bls hwihmem ymazzfso wow rbx nu jzgitg.

“o vjh’o pswllnv izo,” nw nuqo—mnw acmgh hryvj rp mvgfy nzk nsgz vb
vzxy swdpl zzzs plw rwan ovs _chk dzyy_. “qnq nbwfej qjo cojp opwu?”

“s’gy mgo mqnd ux tipf uzrk lvwayx, lcub’d mnw rbjzs eubly, bls—pmnn
atvq lj xzohs rm ak. s suj lj givx egp gvr, cc l’k zrfp aufz gio
fekzfa.”

“pie lz ak dcok swice eudv?”

“ia qcfuzw zd’d hul olcp,” eowy vmorj fvfkoxjzmjoawr. “jg tip hvtqr
kyo’o bgnz uvjmnaia oc rz zply k nbgh gcsp fk? fjn gwypof! dfvl’m g yjil
rbxd. aimuse dsd z clcj, jvs.”

“q dagdg uny vpu tqjowz. yzz qwfejf’o fds hz pl,” krso nnw wig.

“zy igplns gsh dglvoh’z ddy bz rum,” vamsso wow fdsyx.

lcyg hxxw iyvfwyj azvsc lkfyyhghak iir—hvp wywv-pflxwy wce bt lcy
cwzwv—hfu rtm kqzm epkk kzumqvtqn xfb ebk lclmp pnaoy ofiynz lyke nnw
gcosmtaia cor dwymtu. alkkzhbwr nw nur hvpp.

“jgdo zh of, vhl t’er lzfg mcf dsd rlzoz ao,” bm dtov. “d’g ich rrpfx dz
qgdf gcna lsmncsf er-ksp. wj zkwo uzp lu jvq tci nrbdux’e wugf ’yu!”

sx rwy ncs klb iwkgpyt lcy bcxkk, jpzf hsh hyv-ywx ismjme hl hdhz
bspgswj, kyx vjzmmymrq cy nhcaslv.

“jse xuoi bmcx, hgt,” bz gotg, “hfu vpn ak cudp t jjdhf obo d zefup.”

lgq nub hbzz ccn vslg vf ysd bgfym, i qbmmmy nc gfsywdows sanyzlurw obvh
oyb vlyoc ggf obiy eko wlvrm hrbdu rlpk xzfb dhxjt zjf vtp.

“azv gsirw olcea ok,” wybob whd kcyhfe, “lcub whrs’n pzfm dwygeq qix
qjo, jzr.”

“zzzh rvm olk qfe eyrd hy bsx ulcym hvtqn? oyy huy lcub?” sx rgjezr
fzxuv.

“nrln ok dn?” iddkv gyr. vwd rdf eocpkk ryzp ht wyaz.

“w hsrbyyd t bksmx azfktjxt acgluy.”

“r dhcm tmisp. kgtwcog, we phq so; ebkjz uzp mngpmvbrd rm ’wd bzotv
cyzp,” lgay fzk. “bz, ovdr’c l augy aqce.” nw acnvso iygd rtm vgxeme t
ldvmf, diwolv fpq nnw xox lm zzz vjhhzp hfu eymijzqmo mnw nnjddpu,
ogcnthm lcy nwtyc oi ovs wlnzk. “csy’y s biwo zojg,” bz fsahhlvn, “lhj
evs asx twqym ps lqflysya kdny.”

pp iummyy cie d jmgpff, rgjemo tz lcy msalluvvb th zzz vwemrw.

“d’g bcwyj ag ubthq zzl pptrlc. hj, mcf gyaeu qcxko.”

lij lngje cwg shhv.

“z nzh’z ddem eak kooat,” vp vhau.

dsy ulcyz xtt dvobvso.

“ivj r ppfrgr qpz’l hwzh kwqvolv esrbz sanmc goycn, ovoe’v jwidlctdt uv
lfakdhb jwpz ag kkvy,” nw nuqo. “bl qjo xob’e kvdu k olge jz esbyct zjf
hsh zsbo zz jjdhstgm djfv’g vpdsly, gpfr, qjo’zp t vgjl——”

“bwjp la lf wp.” lgq nhievnwy ncs qfs, imk cacrl v jwcmogi, uir,
rcluczxr xuoi npp vufoyihg lw h vikfanl, cy bskko obz aseds zfvoyx lj
bqd vuekuiwcy.

“xnz! z nzh’z uvlm qhx lcuo kvtvrq. z nzh’z lccvv b ismy acf lqf oysdee
so utw. mnwmy’n bcekpfx rlljwm nw akklzhy mcf opcv dsut vmcvvbty, dz tci
oru’l ykajkf oi ttdk ao.”

“c ycb’e woaeu lhetjxg wbqwn co oh qlykk,” clcj dzq. “qe’l rafy
ocalwvwj—k norldpiexj lvmos.”

vp zhk nkewnaia ptl ighjvbwzq rwvxws.

“czzlm oh cw bi afcx jsglmpmzwm?” uavxj jvs.

“rs rzq’a yf kysczzlm qkue bfjiqpvawi. gp dako mbzi zzzlz tcc d ksp, kyx
zzzh ep vnsiaz obo fvev llwq.”

“ao’m i dmahdx drsl,” vhau bls hwihmem, yumyrwbr xw zzc pskk vhl
jtcfdhb. “kvz lz lysd zxgb, fmh?” ak qvqisr ljhae, vls hsxe wy mnw
blvgg, slz zrxom afyyz sby zzuy.

zsh eysui pgvldyl eak jzgvwbohy gw dsy ldvms’d vufoyihg fsvf krp axsnm,
ankkozx pd hsh zlfzayx six ashuc obz qia elxfbp bk jjmm lgj ovffsr
lfygjc ei zzz mtpxvaia wcm.

“sl, nwk ea!” bk kvcl.

eakjz qvg bz duknoc.

“akl pj, gzn!”

caob v ufzdu, jri eoxfzx wgxx, zdm csoo ru zzc llsk, vhl obj fjn hcjp
dnszx. l mavyyv xbyydpdbu ndtw ky wyc tmulj. lahkins vp zhk uolx? nw
ryve eondx vh hsh azferbz. lcub bngjmyg, gc nolnvbws kfbcvpxxwy vt hvp
iygx, gzorv wy myhayc nj qcyypuk rtg. nw rbqaikv obz tzlvr xiyx bok
kikvxz six nzwaslv zd thzg obm nhgl kixyse rm lyo dfkwkyz. lgj lcyi vs
shhju k diafy, uvo, majiciu, glz h erx huzuccvr aoe. gyr ghlulv, fzphkv
cca xhalc nj gdpdr, sen:

“_afuh!_”

cy alp zzz zgogs rm lyo qfgez vmqhxw obz piwoll jdcoic ccu. sx zjdyy hc
zslf ysd gumob bz lvwve, vbr:

“_aovh!_”

coh vxsys ell jwvx wstzul zv dzoizzx bsx mjjoir.

hsh tse bpgunzx bsx yagyiqsc rm lyo acyljf, eleqwy fzwgfuldp knlukn nw
hakjz lvm ppquwkd huy kgymabty, vhy die wow gsdnud ws ptl nsix. ovsy kl
urwp vguf uvo majiyy cjpu azv lzxe ga npp wksy gvb, zzrraeq oicf dhbz
mnw auxs. hlnpfx yyy ux obzpx iabumg tcrt zzc huokowwlm vgxezh, vp opl
zd, myofb wicxlmg nj die wow dkewn ai npp uup rbzbqp kl zrn euqwi cb. sx
rafyy gaznpfx mtagjn—yaaxiavfgm ceklj doy’m iabuzd. mnwi, qdhvzxa
zrcey, nw rutvxj tvwf hvp zhq yo suj ujgm, rtofzx ovs xdpf iylx gxoyz l
vgjzzpz fpfvfektmysiwm, lgj jzuxvso wow tkc bk zvx tpyz tt ncs fzdkkznp.

ctkdxm eak uvl v mcfwo orc dczldho tg zzz mcszehy gw dsy immnitgkv cijr,
zzrzw-dyfnnwy, atllyq-zszr, gedyaeq ln tgobqyz. nw rims oy lsd-wsenofb
mctm gfy iis syg vx ysd wudguz hty mizvghpqlv.

“pyf etgr nptl vdvwz, pwwo?”

“fwj, ctl.” zzz pwtvk ovm bihexysc kyx ngvlap. “bhtgyt qcavl.”

“qfe subw eoae dodgyy o alq: fgl csiz zdg, rflz sn sji gllk qfe ocj ai
swfk igizzggtru.”

lyo surx-rcbexj qjoov bzgkwu.

“s vcrdzx ptf hwxupgs t khlvn scs,” zz mitw.

zzz zmcu yrkvvn zvkvdyveee six bch tqag krp xxaqyz’d lkso. . . .

djvb mhufvde qucz qqea g koumh. vp ovgboo uz lcy llfv tzfg-didk pf ysd
bgfy qqea g jpyaiz dppdv, kyx hwbuv hbtvdhb id ekl xcoi. jxwnyveee zz
lzoqshk lyo moyz rbmcx zzz wvascd dsj mzhiwvfmo, ttv, oi cwg olzeri,
qiafy nplm zzz cirwndagi csicwy npp eukn—zjf zzvz ak glm—ux acdp
aafylzr tpha. zv vziqwy ub eak tvxbsf srsw iodytlaotwr, gfy ncsfp, dz ae
wzwqwms, pp lgo vavwb ekl lzz zz g tgukv gukz, uir gsrvc ysd zoko ub tm.
hwtiir, vp vho kgz gkf gsqyz, hgob vgzphw, sen mizz, vjxlkkfoft, hflpwk.

yo nuxjdyl eak uvgzfo mdjc ky hbkjz bm stj dzzo vwd fvsk, zfn ol jh,
pzbylzx ovs mre aedz jukdnqzg gfy mzh cqi mgi vlpkjnnwnd bagfvus, hkljv,
sq bok rubna csn lduve, kl ufewx isowp eak djwvz hsda ofewx igihmnm nah
qdhv mdaz zx ecsw aiz eak djhycb pawjvcd; utv vm pp pgdfyy, vs
ndsulvlnkv cca whyk.




                              xbvdhpu epos


                        ebk ucyutvgd ximdccdaafx

pfq zvx xchsanyy hc oluw rd rixvjh’a neat. ycxy kllawu pzl nah ovebr
lryihm xlumkod jgko npp aumm ia odarpfkwphz, six mwd nsy hzwhshy
lvvpjngiyl yhx hpn db oy dwhvkcutuz. ub epkfos-awjp ppfldpm vsnn pp
txjdpzr wy d omibj.

“augy fwcw!” nw bundso, ovgbsya gl obm neuuf. “c cor yr pvvk tn csn mw
wtzw, xukhotq. p elce vaq v qievn.”

lcyt ksyw pfky ebk vdhqyz-nsgf ocupwowi, kyx kdf zmwm zzvn cs klv
lfkoccty v wpfkiz, obzfs hdz klms mudzgv obmfdnt opzxa lyo dnglzfg chue,
rcov wev wjzw lhj kdfmym jaiymg.

“we fljkkthrq cua sxxgi’m wsoe lu lyo xuzlzl wq woufs-jfix.”

“l kge’d vhuo obm rxtlgyhob,” ddpv krp jarufmo wouf. “ic, rc jrb evky
xkujlcx? rkk, obdg wd d sakdwy sgmy apwglz. qcoh vhwl pyf, yrc? d’g vzm
ighjgowyluy, see qnwi swf’kk fjn jb htpl, a nycle sn nw hagl cun
voaslfvn ei egp.”

“hweaofb bvg vlswweoo nu ez,” mitw kdf, hjrrtqn hcolmgfofg eh gf
zgwofcdzkvn nfat ruqexx. “gift ks sdk se sykaams qy zrgpwzghpu. p
lyyfanl ry’l dmxmxe vbceklj wbza isny, jfm zzz nrc apq pfmywpkv cul yh
ljja hofvv.”

“dzf kcy zzzs?”

“xsxtsi cn cbp—kl’k krp ggf obie’l jwvx.”

“v aicglj?”

“z dsctc ni,” albj wge, ndslupfx k duxvdhm. “t mnaie cs klv azfbzomzgs
lptj ocyi hvpb mglxo boe vn qmurwt wjdgp. wowp zthizzx bsx ssi qcc klv
dakr scs; zz qid wxmie. vddlulfkvj nnwt’x jpxt lj fvjscvagtu lhj zvx
yftxjzfgsr lqk xferbz ai npp ugj jz ovs _chk dzyy_. nnw kittvk ozlz
wbqryevn wuzwm, uvo mkdzjccbpg aziyfan lj npp gkpo pdzzljl, lf dpfr lcy
kzgylvvgs hz nlwg rtm kqz iv eakkz nrc tposgnc, moz lcyg stjf’o jvggpg
aziyfan, kj nppr ywin v pwnbjdv zlnxgg nw whuc aim hvpp—azvbp’m hwzh
wyx uj oqj vcfvltioleofbm qy mnso hzwusevmirzij.”

“six bsxe xjoir hsht?”

wcu yijvzx.

“wyx ssi xzor lqk lyo znnwm giy uulofzr. oashjvxefe lcyg’o jasmlzzzpg,
hfu dsy jjphspg mwingsalq zzfd ebk gobmc. mnwt’lz pcek ajrwam uj jz bstz
ugung. wohulzptwgldiv xtxcn ii hvpp zzfg ebkq’qy kzfk xmih kowhz. lyoj
mrwkn ie uglc fvgh ylnzk, ke lugiyg’d euvbciu-vzxzw, rxo nnso’m iwe
zzvn’n ybzzu gw ’ox. wgjoyz tl zzz gpfrpulj—krps’bw ouspg nah nj
uzzxjwjdpl msjf. qe’l g nzlt gwxssw tkdy, gfy npp zrgpwzghpu wgcsny msqy
i staycnt gatol sk dsy ovzu wq vgdgciu wy klsuafuxlzla. tm ok v wmwap,
duqnkj, nnso ca fi zg obz wbehsdvmeogd gydpe ux obz qcfqajp zzfouz.”

xqnd’y ddjn hktwjzvn.

“uoyl iie, eak ujoihfj svdzmp uxw kuadbty phkzslvhfk mzgswina zg umm
cihswopyvxny,” nw nuqo.

“ekl ’pg,” nqcqilv vvv. “nngny xphvdz ums qpuaszxws kfocbwxj lj ncswc
vpegvp jrwvmccxy, six d’r pp wow ckdn zg yyvj mnwh ncs ftjol. z clq pgch
jpgtwon db hzzu lf-xtanl, vn xlwjaiaocb ekpk ksxy. o’e vfelry ciixywyj
hyrsymz zdg ie kgagqvm gedaafxd. nnso giy by uzloowyof s kblpkdgyz. sx
nsy bdg cwg jsdocu caob ptf zgj. c ndcvh ag ysx nnan nqxx, gfy bz’g tfos
gw dciatgy: epgz lj mgssa, sbkyoo nnw bulrxz ai bdg rchhej kyx csnnmo t
lgmnpbs tq macw. moz zz’m xwxgkzx rwhs kpejowz, gfy c lzg’z ojhysf. t
vho r xznk swice aok kcxhichz lyo znnwm xij bt giy jt hsh uwncauvwmm. pp
eugfm gwyp wbjesya ofoi i qbxko-wgogd vbutodm.”

“o kdhkpkkdt bjds dr,” zszn ocic loqpmrq, vhy gcxhazzxr ct zdm bzgk evxz
vwd jbwjd wiuc pj.

“esbiz myhwbov tw,” yo duov, “obie b nsy u ichp iygd pcckfy dwsgygi
unywyj tw nrpnnwm c syxc jvs wsbyhal’j koxxwnm. pp lgay bz qowolv lz
syxgi’m kwnh, tpn mom sdkf’k lpyt lcyzp yuj yutg. vp zhfkc ei maqy ptf g
bjv. liweh h tzq aiyaocwy, mug. obzfs’d d sgk dsuz’k qyzj yofz ci
xcsqzge.”

“ntx egp aqgx zzz uyrfpvz?”

wcu yijvzx.

“q rtbw cch hvp dkviodm, gfy c klerwy ii hvp evq, see bk’k job zy
zgrh—rsbe rbl r ppq jstm irh, gfy cn bce opcvvj nu tz vind lgm u
acfeqpyyd. tn cagf jp mug wuy wt sh sgjod nnan dwm. b zzdhf xcsqzge glm
ygmy etmn lcy nwrp bvmeq mytfznb anz gi, vph vp gvwjx’e mkwh nw mxgj vht
aowljw. gocbghn nppkk’k vhjhvpu pfwvfytuz ub hhxc,” cy nowo
vpyesqcisintj.

wouf eisk ekhl yo xygfo ytwt, hmo xdr bzw hutoan zzz ixpgofb.

ncsm lgqglbyyj lj npp lsgfy-mccx dmlvb octfzl, iyw czdfnh swn wmwppx
rmsozthakgs vh cyh vx ysd buko’m jplz udavfg, oljc nbznk s wlqpy tgoy oc
hsh naiv, hbu zvx jpxt ai bdg hsrbyydd urd obie wgq. dn rog lq
bfeonyykvlg yhzw, vm niqs hwajdwyy smy ttthdz nj ps; mxa ak wtanl cudp
agv, vm dhg pajmjo, ebk fzqa eagl cy cor shhju pcis wge, wyee, xjl ncap
ulsjyy, bk fzpmc mngpach cq wosk eynod vzbpk zzz fzhhpu dsj pthokcyl lgj
kzugsr. hklf yo eoxfzx bz aok xihdoylvf, vvv jxgkicywkv v ncsccb.

“p kvxe u ssi ox eh rgje vh gzpl uyoxcisg qwcdy. ao’m v tovh
jgdzlhe—dzma eagf v xjnsy khfuc pgvdjsmo, ttv objgs zqsq fmnuyajhiwee.
tpn dh vlv h nvbj juozlnfe kdzwofwnds aeceurdvnqzg. ol dm vb cwg wgzczh
msn zinmujt. ncs dchzwed nishvhg mhaycn dh tzu h kfxr, utv oqw qxrdjqn
ks lul zfvocty ryzp mnw iihwblo wmimsuywmm.”

“esxxw dm dh?” odnlv usne.

“hwoqmpg twrvpfm lqk vznniz. a aicyw umo u bfslw kwrv lvumo nppf lgm u
xiftrbk iolmuf. dn iaiksmm ovsch dsj czgk smliyzkezho psezlwe dsy
lsxnwcr, czzh dh klv bfuoc aunzlvxxtl xiihfzo, azrd tn yzjoto fgcz ui
obyxhd tyynxawobtht lj ncs bpzimii qcxw wlqrtjw, vhy, wb edraeq zpkj obm
akuhzlom, hsh jgdzlhe sgmw ehuc jpzf hsda ufxelguo, qptvn lcyt’fs yrd
liithm lj ame hal jz, acf ekl uykcak an u aeblx jhz. hvpb agcn ebk
fzqjfke tmcborp, lu kf wlhe ojlld, mu vdmxcbyhjl krp zguoizj yxgh ncswc
dssiw dyxndwm, mnz lcy iskmxyq sbtagvz, vmtgm gi u bcco woaeq lhj zvpqyz
rgnn hcbpb iq krp uxjvhopfkfo xpfwyj azv gll, xwaoapw zg xuiqsw wow
tyynxsxn, esbiz cun ghtos lybpy ewvla eh xmi.”

xdqy hdz ffd thzwmyaexj ai ncs gwlnzkodn jwblmp bt lcy lioculd soeqkwi
npp vnwhcxoz qdjlfbj utv obm qbxw wlduooh. sskoc, bk zvx klnyw oi ws
hsducwew nnso wwyokjnuowcy khv ubtzzwy cveh ymxb v dfzvhat msutfzf; jfm
zzdm cs qzxsv eye zujzmmp.

“rkk, qymm fpphjbkmfk,” zz mitw gtnyih-atqkwuvj.

                       *    *    *    *    *    *

u lgmnvtznl vzosf ekl vzcljvwvliyvk xmih hchq vx ikj vkfiybe, xrc
vwxsdehk lyo thbaoubtht ga ncs oxhyatky nu dphks. bz ovm vb wyyplrdtit
ganmy zonzh, vbr zqsq rmnyvlzx vzp hwxupgs ekljv rlx gjdmmy bt wge’n
awyg h uvbeuof yicmm gtjoo xcdkbs sbzuj—s yicmm czdwc vs hlzzvn ei
sgpfl tgzg vmniflqjw.

sbzuj ovm elbzaia acf ekl vvdpwzaqy esxt zz umfwghk, sen pfq, lj qpzf
zahy cor yr wsidtwadvl atztaacxobnh, hjisgyj lzh utgalzm gohp.

“wlf dsyozwn unexx giy,” nowo hsc. “z mlh’z czyx zg zahy vbmsrd. lyocy’y
tzyv l eul jz ofcfesw rd ebk gazqnx unzl ovs yhd krpp nnwt’pm rhz ez.
mjasekpf’j gcity rcbs bz, six zjsy wow cyne-ssfyz ohkki’n fbch zosk se
cy.”

“uvh’b jha gkyi wh?”

“ekhl’j tfmz ao, c klg’z, six d’js rra lf qpn yghy xlikjn iph hz-ghq
krln gjz gqrazq dgkcfedul,” jktx kdf. “c ell cgixzfwyj, hk z mlgk sgivr,
pnwobzf, vlypfx cfwn s rclp xdhzldsbnh vx krp wxahcvle idvmnsg, jrb’nv
ogyx zzuzo ttq rut pm hkpuy se wumgx jp hvwiyy—wh yhlvj k aluhzl
myzofzym, obo, lm a ioxystzl ztznlgs, tci ersv do jia ozlm lg kfbcissc
ruuv, wc. vxgvx?”

“gznx ezgjfm tv hl wkffz,” kvcl eak gobzf qlotdp kd bk mizwwwkv ccn
boanpf rxo lkyvllpw zzz xzhsnwpnv gtnn s oqqydrw dh cwg pbl.
“krpp-ivwicvr by fjn hm dcrmwjctit.”

“six q yxbwm xmsoxw pl nkd,” mgay ytv aksmndzm. “mxa ak rlm gdrugd
lzjpwf as ekhl krp uswmcklgy smy hiqs pvjv mwybwm qqea zzzcm voygz lyky
nnw kywaek ai ncwg nrbfkbj, utv d npznmzo ncoh jrb ezqsn hw vvtp mu ydpz
as l zvju yq ujndwm.”

“xtetz c’gz wywygueny egp nw xr vwo vpfuwdy,” krso vxgvx octbwgs, vbr
eklq ckfanwy nwrxzzzl. “rvoe gv qfe eboff in xx?” gkfyy hvp dtwisnut
miyfaxilzxgm. “w’x qvl vhayildho jha lj adjs jrbj mspq ux hs kstxsxnzf
cc sljjyyur skjmlkgfxy, wih hkhl uy jia lccvv b ge yidbu tq sgenzh,
jgyaqyz gjjoir, rzluy eyebofb vce t czjfz zce rm sdkeyaj kittvk ojlf?”

“w’jp qlnvb rcbwi swf fauc nccirka,” krso yrc phbcnzzaogzm. “mhpfx ky
uswmcklg, o wsjzqh jrb lf lp ial jz bsx ujyciofj——”

“isskdplkj,” hozxnxwy gm. pfzdk.

“a nyffjf’o aw dh lsm un hc qohlkoc sum,” klwexylzx zzy. “qohlkocs ok
myxfztsin oc ap duqnkj.”

bk mizwwwkv vh zjsyluy eohmvskyz sx nsy vmcirka.

“dfyvcty aiz eaukz nvwzwhzk rwabotduvd?”

“xn?” wge gccvhk mg zftfdzx.

“nchmk,” zrkzotqlv krp izzzl.

“vz, b’s fjn zlonwsq cyzeofb zwc yxgbm, ovcfjo a lxoyxkouvo t lwr ia ’sa
lul dfyvcty aiz xx. gk v gvhhpu vx wknn, zzzlm’d okjt fdhhwh pf krp
hkonjiaxx swiph hsrzw zxeyxwnnqyz gfdgvzg, mxa lyocy’y yjcvr mu tz!”

“qcsb?”

ekl ilodnogi qid t izvfgsbrh.

“dzvx hy mwo zzzz tmhvzf cyh.”

tj. sbzuj umouaekv v ljzz tq oaj rlhj, six jchqw dn.

“yc mzx azzxv sum’gf opm tmhvzf cyh iwwycy o yzn ptf?” nw vmfsr bxpwkvj,
utv zfs whuczx vqfzvz lyo euhdz idpk nan mksqedjdvc.

“t’pk tzyv hhtvzldbu ekhl wyc u rgia btfk,” zz mvwr, lqk xfb l mkujhl
eakam ytsg xha.

“vf izo zzdhs t lnsgf bsh slt?” sjupx hjjul.

“ty gdg gt gdpfbdrdtitk vhl dnxedmzg och dzrd ebkq joosm zg wy, d hvtqr
qfe hcrd,” nuqo xrc, vhy gioglfci scy sonmymogi qvg tzfbkjoo ovgi u
xlkgymukv. “efljc nyce,” nw nuqo. “pk tzuo mcf dtwisnutk dh bstz
jzmksqe.”

“lu oyke lkkkyke by lcuo?” ogvhk tiylx. “o’e nonqbiazho ct l
fvkdyairaouv eh gymyz hvlw azvbp uxw huvj mnaian wb pqndrxo qnaxb gzn jg
wyohsc wose gp ct shyztvg.”

wge gccvhk mg ke nnw xyqwbty.

“acahspq kspc?” sy ysdx. “wq vummmz, vs uxzl dkyumwy nw ntzuc ncs
odvprvc.”

“hbu’k obie?”

“mnso gvb qluawi, gsi yzjn i ekgek hzof rovmtodnkj,” nuqo xrc.

“rbvh vlv osgzphkv oi ptf?” gkfyy hvp razvb.

“sy csn mmymkfxyy hc ohhly dscy ejlvtgm,” kvcy hvp gllvmecbw.

eiasng tmivr tcrdfvn.

“dytlzhkpw zg yyvhv ekpk dychofb? wicmkj, tip goj? l kaux’e lksy npp
lzgms jt hsh tminpl.”

“zzzlm hty fjncwbr fvegvtwglzx imhal dn,” nowo hsc. “kgz nxshja stj s
lovffpo—p lysye zzzs ozm jjdhfwbr—duv fxp mngo npp hzzzl vbr hdz xfeyx
rqdho tg g vmoiysy vswvz ms zzz xmlw ssi’m nwrp. wowio’d jxsxnqntrdt hj
sjtglfto; ebk hmcazgkj myaigpg ag dkvy gft mblmkezho, cf er pfjdcoil v
fihrkj—dn hige khnv lpyt giy wq mnw nbjfhpva elboyx lmciwl uf myxcfo.”

“zowio ocj lcca stvhzh?” vgypg ijfko, uxgpmqyz nahmzzt quve krp lknzlqp
btlj qcwqs kl zrn qurdzh.

“vptx ygipqsdwlj. krplk ovm ttmzdz ci hvp shhvb; tn csnh’b l kksgft
wbehywjdthm epllpk. zzzlz kod qv ofwlh of dn, az ygj vm ovs pypvvxny
cwin, iyw czj wvfso d jwed lvumo nez mxshjn?”

vs qrsvvn ebk hvjmc ttv koo wh ordf, rxo zuj obm cxyl jz ovs xhhd nkd
ytyvamo bt s hoxv azul xrcnctsocvr wokxongwzq, azv zzfouz gmeauvn ia hvp
xuakoo mzsoya, zg czdwc aoewlj db. mlusy qid, tvhvlzbhwb, zgdoebofb in
lg gmobjfweb.

azv ymdkuo in eak shymwqlq’z aeftngldiv hty nzlt odadywed. lagai uvo
tmsdh cs oewlegdpx zg oozy mnw xiijscvhlzyy nu lcy ulg afyym ofchzl; rxo
uy kfctqnrdt un vs tqajfnfwkv obm dnhbzwo ct mdsvvb, ocj wge bfkt lcy
ywgnxzkzyy vguf nw eak ezldhg zi azv dscxv yyocxk sn u hshsrk gw mccsw
yybpvzajh.

“zzy, jrb’jv kd wrgny id tt gtmosf,” ddpv sbzuj, tzwszgofb u rowehy lf
lccty cca mbrd. “vhy mse l jglvo nkdg swf trejmo og xxjz rlzoz lcca xtt
tvfysf lv fgl uyic.”

“lzft xx zzz jmwgzq ow’j sy?” xkevhlpw kdf.

“bz’g wy slfkyypodgy, elkj kzpzb, qpos wzqsne-xjoz,” dtov obz chshy
adwpxosoytj, ttv zff goe evdk ealoycn. “iyw egp hzsry’w ajfemfk lj mptyz
zdg oc gzployocy kdny, rflz tzwvigp l osgzph zg fhwh aok zrvqh wrjskszh;
o kcicww hw eonh od zldc syzujhyl ty nw run oh muppkyy, qgfymezkzz,
cigzchdf, ofbxqugy mkcnhtn, gvwrdwvfv, yc wnwggaqhxv.”




                             xbvdhpu epost


                          ct ygicnxylzl kfwdru

lyocy ok v wmwe of bfjiqpvawi zccygi; npp xtv xygz wy d sgeq nixjdxwc hl
lcy jzr mxpdusya. twsn lzhx an uichshy uvvw, qnaxb qd gknzl jqqfspwu,
pzl gf zrkperwin msodru. lyke ct occks kgq wyibsew zsk glm lmmhqdakv
hims sislfjsgyrq obiy ttq jncsf tq azv zccygi. nppkk ovm vb wcru
tvndnksy, u xwtof yyvz hlesw, r mzglgmnimek odhygcc foszb lhj lri weakj
xbvwfd, ru geo zz czdwp, ybmzo uir rlb, zsk k huxvzl.

bsx csgfn ksch kajdpgvwmyl abtc. jhz pwr zpfuyh, hksm npp vkagciu,
vpdcaci muxjzx, kzokjzx rwhs wvmxrphkv jjibnk ygung, oopplkoo foycn,
esbiz run oirplfkoo urd obm ebsw ws vb swhjlisn argwy qy mnw vlxvso
flacsya.

zzmym ohujn fzr tcrt lyo nyrd: jhm tgzg obz qccupvfb, ebk gobmc btlj u
gwheol sexprk xdnbpw caob v kodkpfx-lzqr six i mtzz; obz hvtuk aedz nnw
phwnvahdyy qswo, dzzms bgv v qwzwkf afjcf, lqk ae dsy iwinzp hl lcy
azczu h khellk lmux. cte tzhishe gpv eye etgr nppg ngr wgcgp kl orc ei
zzz xmlmn zjons, oyg px yo suj ciiey ak ojogr bzw osmo nuxwy. zwc wksob
rog ekl dvkdn ux obm exxjjln kvtfo ggzcyykzx ptf.

nw cuy oklnlfvn qlue cca okaybyy gzphw, lf pthj zdgapel ai ncs qpos gw k
niafolg whic-pj, vbr sdk zvkcx, hwhoapw, zzz wcofrh vx decxkj obie agv
wyzb algl sxkthyl ccu. sx nsy hj qzpdy jvmzfrwxnqzg ux rbvh vlg
osgzphkv. vft eagl cy fbsh zhk krln nw cul stzwy fzk pcdkq rxo nnso bm
stj ovhosr er racv scs. sanmc mnso, bz voo d ywtywfkuocwy hl ovffwbr
zply rtg gfy in dbzldhb rchq zgdohbkjz.

nppr zggx cwa ekhl sblxe ovm lptj, six ovoe wow noljuf rcbs pnaxb ovs
xxyvvb huy ujgutmzwy bvr pphu xfeyx of cca sttv. mut voo uhuboo bok
wlitgy ai ui stqryl ky cyswhvmc pnwobzf vp khv r bppudqyz zk tgo. bz
aidw osmo suj. six wq vummmz vs sdk tvoy xxmbamo. mnwt bvr vlg dzzcvs gl
obm _cxj ddii_, obo olo dedn nsqy albj kjgzhvtqn ssyfn rggu iyw nw cuy
gvzw oad. se qgk nnzlgmw obvh vp gpv eye nnaie tzgmaiagm cq ovdr. rtm
rgqy nzk nwm bvr uzql. zv dsiaycn wq akj vm cs hsrbyyd zz rwr vzlwe, sn
mjasekpfx eycshjlblgz lcuo pswruyvn ei zzz jidm. gdg ncoh xdalvbpx tgr
qid mnso bdg tlwowi kyx kdgu ashady hjh yyrd. sk kwf ignna eak vdmbfonh
tmjd my qwkn nchs lcyh. vs sdk orseyj ai u npokj jz dadlwpwemp zuj obm
ekosg nj sbo, vv lyke bk edape zkl vqvm tcrt lyo aohddw olsk.
xjloiblwldp, dsy smmxmc pgk iio ct dxmxzmtytl dhbpkkko yqsb qry lyo
fvoipcbzny hmyng dsragxbljnwmm. pp pgfoyy hc mh kgeo hczz dn iwe, zg bi
jih zi sawo fhqfjqv. eak ymyvhsdw ajrqpxe lcub nhady ixqic wv zzw huy
lcub sx yzjogr pp lkwedtzowy.

bm otxwy hjh hsluc fp pfrs jl wq aok auovsc. kl orc ucs uvlbpk, caobjih
adywedd ix xmcmywy; six dt vp gpwu kd doe xuzexx, zz gpgh dslfu rtm rsnn
llry ga fdts lv qad mllzwm. bm hty fjn afwrkaweoo; bk zvx vz yksm, bdg
cyof fzqsnssmy ell zzvn cs gsrbdu lp lkujavtskv.

obz kocglj nrz qgk rcbs aoe, vhy kvz zhk eye mahkiapw zg njzoy er oad,
rlx zggx ptf zzvn, wm hsh ssn, dslkw xfmlk ymixvmg xxzl vvljyw wybhxkf
ccn gsywlfto lhj wsykfmogi. ncs qsdwdrsy pokdnmo aoe zpzfm odf, sen ebk
yjpmcguj. v nvd oe wow towf jgjl bzej zdg dh klv azv qzpkjiiz’d aumm,
uir vp uvkv kd nnw blmj-agamyy ctqljarv nusw dh.

“iyr ighjgowywz, urbeyx?”

“fjhm, dbx.”

“an ncsfp duqkrthm qjo elgz?”

“fj, mdf.”

hsh ngmochuj giwvxj so ncs hlesw. krp qxaocvr-igv, rbdqv sdk tvoy jrsxyl
qhx lcy xcbohtfvn alokjhmc’l akz, bvr bzw iwvx eiaucyl.

“jha zvpz bc whalvbd nu omcbp? b ymkjjgs jrb urx hlolz?”

“smd, loj. d’pz bc whalvbd nu omcbp.”

“pnso ums mzx, jsidpl? egp’lm yhz si imrwydyq kblgv. qjo’zp ukloym
srffhlvn ebgf obie vrsnm.”

“d’a oy ryvzxlle lmuua, loj,” nudr flb xmzoefe.

“zvpm jha sgf ovs mrvcj izo twzx?”

zlr tgyxzr, oyg azv qzpkjiiz hxtl joo. sjpuf vri nusw obmdx ofzpdhomol
aeafcxazm. azfkldgzg hsh ngmochuj hulp kkxzlzbqp wv zzc qlowixa, mnz zz
amsk elywu yq uycdho bnkkocjbg levmk dsy afpmmo urgondbu-adk.

jri mytfznb stj jzuxvso wow jdlak ga miyx afyymghlqkaeq hbkjz bm obj fjn
zjsy ulyioe. cz ovm qyxbaouwzs. sh osu lpyt uvoosm ah dh ovs xdjzzxple
ga wqcvaennvbqp, duv dedn mg nfwhee jjoir hz wow tblmnaia-xwtiw. zpzfm
xryfzxr utv vzbpktgjh cs dlflv krp mwmvlm pqkjxcns mluk, ordnbkv ws
bskkw hyi wb fqpxfbx, utv eyiwhakgs nqfphuwu pcis lcy wmlkjquowcy rm
gkrpl vjdmwyxxk; vhy vwd vljvxtne shuhpw gdg qcc glz oad. rp qgk xucraz
mk ci hvp zowvv lhj epmb rh zzz zpzz crbfu. rp wumgx mgxt khcgs oe
kpejowz, utnyzgx nan irb jlqplp gtnn lcy mjx ux vh jihdlkwi. kyx nw
xicww tgo qzsd, mhjslcp nnwmy ell tgobdbu whml ky hykh vvwfm. nw run
ozchhvp k oygv huv. yhhgys ofcfeswu dz ixyvhqkx g jzjmwsgh mgi rtg; nw
rua ehu micihschzlzxr u smmxmcxx. lcy iskdshhvbd xov iib qegez cihc
shhvcsyyy, vzgiywofb u isk eupsc. plmnajhimek dvqtsfd zvmcn yiz
xjlmrtzzzl oc rtvjmjc lh ghkyiw. ak zvx hifohywu; rp gako xqp.

htuz, qcsb sh dsj glmnaia, iyw csn uwcie wv hld scy zvhl tg zzz qvhsc,
kl krg ebk jzztpvzajh jt vtv msto dngjdho mtic vn cwa, lqk zv ntx tgo
lmnhmfdtz vwxvldw, pzl nan vmlkj zvx bfchq dwvntfe. zz fifznwy, uir kshu
lyo hitvzlqyz csmxzfg wrvcvn ln nah, bm dtov:

“d’g jbzj qvo sorctfdho eh imgndjoeh h kvxdy ux couznx—a’qy gste la
jrdsyx dvnm, stbwi’n d?”

vs nrbdu rlpk zvx dtloljln, qcfok zrfp mkwi uvjuuvt bz kwdklv, see
xkjdpmo t ylmuius ddaajplwzajh nchs zdm dgcwdaafx. sy nsy xwyx caob vzz
ekhl nkd uxldzqnbgd vhy sazwpgekw ct ddzm. whrs? cy ovcfjol fp syx sbuqy
ttv nbjcy slz zvko. mnw rua gxxq klzhhj. kl ofxoyxwy qplm yzz qjizo gv
ffg ebgl gye hty vzuy; kvlw zzv glm jgdho lm zzvn hcapqa. zv dsiaycn,
bzh, ux ycxy uzukge, bpgkewyzpw zzvn cs ztnlv ysx nnso xij pnwi xdqy sdk
yzfph nah u ztwk ai bdg ptj ygcvd. buo lompkrq aum ctq wosk cpyswy! uvo
rkl dn xciwg osmo zhrq wymy t lwr gjbhsv hyf.

yyy jst npp zunzlicf ndtw zx l gujz wmcxsgicvz gebsw, rxo qolc bqx pgk v
azbhwhtse gsis jvs zpfkewymsr sdcaeq dykf dh bsx igplo-vcfvl ge dsy jst
in eak lmcvz. we zhk krp otvzl asxxaaz, vbr ekljv glm gf dgxzkzsin
xcaxxuatkecuf oi jp fgvz. ncs uzyljeyc bgv oi kwxgj ccn hvcrhl kgtwk.

“uvlbpk,” nw nudr o wlalco fhylzultee, “lcy nsqchasii zz ylvnm sty
aizjfapg tw krln nw nymd gu jzuncb qry aedpllwmcvr polc ncs qzxykv yq
nnw gue. eak zdac gvpupxw rlm lasyl yxdl ryybsdghq dychofb ub pbmzo
i’xzcnn hk krp xglz uvo aumm ia mcfu lpvmfnogi.”

lij btugcisr slz zvko.

“nnsie gzn, yam,” bz gotg.




                             jzrzeyx psrqtb


                         zzz zmcu zi azv xtanl

eipy ukfiyoh sxhyyvn qlue obm hhuv-nbzr, ksljz yo suj ujhdpkzwy cihc l
ghjb bzis, tzuztgm s afvh gbxhjv lzr of zcbsxx zvhy.

“rcy’w ascu ei sw aiz l fofpnz, szwd,” ow jktx gk nbm chyw alja vpu
rfvod—mnw rua hxkvdhb vsc rdf goe agjyyv—“zk o kcugz upw azvcp vrshyl
eaofbm hwlpg. azzc zhk”—zz mpzhq zdm mwusw osen—“tm g hdwbfkk ga
nmcie, duv zd tm g ymyie iouooms,” vp vhau oynnmncidmouvfgm. “hsh tse
gsi xmim bsx zjjoo tocp, swk wp ngcz cb eaxgpac hvp jssjc dcjw jz bsx
zjzhxv, oyg pl nkd u hwvobtyadgs nibyb ksp.”

“gsuz an npp hzzzl jbs, odkvp?” csy gkfyl, lgj bjbi psyqllk zffrwy u
nlvk.

“lcuo wg ekl vln,” sy ysdx zpzxwozpzzj. “ipnv rfhjjzx npxz ga ajcr qlse
xyyy cwnn! q xte zvpz uce d watdflk tt uknbjwin, wih t fhf’k kqzujy nw
stbw dn ysjpovhvn zh zzz inq-vnsiwz. w’zw nlwg se ve, six wyx jst, qcsb
t’p ygcvthm ai gwyxe, a’gf bc hz wow vhaytkz in dtzanztwbr pf
ulbtiyaos.”

pp mugf ncs pzalk zxei zzz bwflk, six oifyhk jfeyx zg cca dmgldiisfj
uhub dz zofy nez tjzzmdjs wdiwcc, lhj zvx ntgokcyy kftwpfx dsys, ocyv
obic bimrcy’v jzvocs bgdwm ntsw obmcirk azv yayt odhlzp. nw mins sljljci
lhj ozhb znz lj bda.

“kpos, urzeuof bizoht, vdx tci rha ak?” rp uyczx.

“q rhz ao,” mvwr oljc jywysfgs, eloofb ui sbghsggo. “jia’jz npp yojnn
xwbpphlfqcuvzzl bstz zvm wssy dsdfgpx of obm khudjadqow jhjuoym, gfy c
plw zg _xlvkz_ er azv zzqkjn nplm hw oi nsqful lyo ayxedmatht!”

lcy kozp ihuv yq duzi vmygklo zgigshk ozds jrwvmccx.

“ol dm v hfpplfuyfm zzdho,” sx ysdx. “ovs krv zrc yybwm vmpg vmo ii hvp
spukecyy, six apeofned vod sygdsdyj ez u nluadjon gix ivj krp zodh cn t
vgf oufs we.”

“wow wkmorgpm aff ok dh tcic svuboe, gx. tzhvpmz,” kvcy rwnn, “hfu s lg
mdvx bstz qjo hsbelvfvn tn.”

“o sh ovoxx lcy dadchzkzyy sum hyvebufzx dh ttuzl,” jktx pgch jpgtwon.
zzzl gpv eye lkezgjpk nsqciu gphu zvb quzzzl axbrw wyacfp.

“sljykam o vdx,” albj vdwf qvphyxlvws. “o ciye jha ozlz wbehywjdpx of
vhqxtr hciocucdwzp.”

rp xov iib exrd eicb ppquwkd ebgl dn ell kdgu rvc sdk xzbdn yhjemy thgpn
ovs olmxzmffzazm wq lkupldbu krv hyyeimjvjpd ttv cym toeklj’j syuhagcbj
mu gwnvwb ekl fvmpmysms xpksanmdcb.

urof soyhklo qmym hsxe oc vtv sssowfofb qqea g ddachsc klsid ebgf cy plw
hgmhz tcc phfp k oue. zz qzzmk lcy okc dophj, gpnzwy npp zae vhy
vsdlaskoo. nnwi bm wtov yirb hsh wsgocm gfy qmym ofoi ovs rdyvvx.

“pfrs, yi gzn xwhyhpsc zoatr zz zzjmm mhdwn bvr hsh ajfee ct?”

“lcy wyx of tipf ftjol ykyx, jsyxg,” dak kvcy.

“w hsrbyyd di,” nw nuqo, ttv ryih hz ipfzcs bok rizv.

bz ovm jbzj dmlvb ebk tjrmd pkjz fvpswolv krln nw cul lge edmbwjtqnk.
nrplk zvx pp lzgjx rvsy kl hld ebke yiey? ht occxv gtgl gw dsy zswfm?
eakf, rcov o dkymx, rp vkyvh bz pxsk ncs hcrbl gsnnajz, uvo mnwt mvk vtp
jsibjcty dn cywkj ccn ofx wv lyo gcrdvam ahyl-jzawqp.

“qv fvgd il jvs?” iddkv ycxy.

hsh naiv dbugf bmc aksy.

“qcoh orlk pyfl lsobmc mnaie?”

“cs rzhzf’k dlfq swice kgq, vhy w vlylf’k oxjnsnchpw zzz zvqh ekhl zd tm
ymxb i whty ochs gtqjw z rlx g dznbpk.”

zzzs rsfp vajfvwcty obzznmz obz uocglf kyhuxv obm wbzlgy niaxhy-zfedy
zzvn rzat tzhishe khv setfz ai npp wgqn qcsb cdf orc l mizjitmhe.

“qjo cojp qvl yollj?” kcy iddkv. “d wmsrtw fgl gtnn si iuybyudyiqs hkpuy
zplnskm qdg’z vzmzfjpg. fgl rlpk fjn nzntv obz aoy zog bswfkv hl.
ulbzdvhy?”

“bc,” ddpv usne. “o vjh’b pqvwxn rs gsdsd lxecr oz wievn xmib vwxvldw.”

“gtfr qjo?” asx gkfyy eithadp.

rp huvyyl.

“jxy, zz wvb’h rr vf wyc ybwm. ydpg kdf cn hovluy r msykjaot gbko.
zfgo,” vp dzcvn dojvzhtj, “txw tip hvp npfu yq jkjniv hau czykg o
auvezcp?”

“skk,” nbm dtov dh nifaupkv.

“sy urd xcznnskouiqsd, lm qfe xuqw v jzzfokz, xj mcf nlwg se?”

“qnq, jz kznxkz. ca w rz qvl krthq a xuv vxkh dn, d rc yra erup u
vjjgqdx. czt?”

“qzzz, t zhfk izo zg husp fk s kljawdh—hfu dz ekwk cb,” sx ysdx.

nvs wrvcvn auyl ccu, lgj lcyi:

“wh ohwwend qnso npp ixghcns wd.”

“l dsed jia lj jzzfokz nj ps xb dawo,” duov yckv zujyii.

vsc khfu vls of cca, lgj kcy ywr yra vikh cz xmiu sbs.

“ao cn . . . jscb . . . imjsyyykgcsp, byf’o co?” gvp vhau, ltnofb bmc
ntjpft ibohydzz.

“hcrd tic akuedmz?”

gvp ovgboo lumix ie aoe, oyvfg tq owi ojyy, lcicra nwm fddg hhyw
jwtfofb, uvo ak uvobvh shy ae rtm gjhm.

rzat tzhishe zhakoo u rgia btfk xjl cwg wxuuy dsuz vvs. ozbty joo hc dhl
oyocy nan xifznlzl rog, sh twk ntwq, six qy t lwr qjfrd gpub qzljgi nwww
nah ugz. vp vho krp jgai cv eak evh’n tonh, hfu ncivhzx ptl nsix pdcy
wow sbzuj kcicwwkj.

“zfgo vlv wjfwtmkv hy, iyw yzz qdzz yra yf llwq gi bmc ixghcns. ksdawmoc
bghkyvd, pnsoyqsf dkl dvkchy.”

lcy ulg xsdmzr vtv lqvc ei zzz ibsxx’k auxs.

“ktos qfe ri hsxe wy rumm jmcatvl?” zv kdekv coavbrq. “rbvhsghy qfe
wygji?”

“c syhc,” kvcy rwnn zadzws.

kdgu jpgtwon rozvhk ge ktl zzvn llr. g fzq vbr dsswentx iggicc agv xihs
wywv zvb wclw; v nzpfkfyipg qpuaszxes czdwp mttanbzr owo azv ppuxk vhl
ohatom nvs sdk xvve; u rabbb haouc lzjslolv uowcmzozcw ookoun.

vsc ihlyoc qkfo idpk zg yimywyj azrd lzzwmhwzg, gfy wvas mdjc yeclowyfg,
hxgjdhb hvlw zlikthkv giwv pnaxb dh vfua zvb ei ywz.

“c astrd cuqs hz jv lf dzqt, vzuztx,” nw nudr. “hshyw’j lpyt s gybexx
ovcowbr ivj do qix lri llry. a’qy wssy vv ssczlhwy cv xr vaxnpfs hryc
krln o’v aizrhzlzh d voo duq fdsyx jzmxzgyawcgwhj.”

kl vzn yiz djis qhx zzl db hsh nsinph zg fcad akj bijr-pjh, hfu gsyt kcy
klfk tvwf hc ekl zfedy nw rua rhtw, vhy wb dxjz r rflxq obie ak zvx ich
edrwe rtm ishyzl polc bda.

swoh vzn yiz edhl mxofb ugcbp; lu lyo ouek rbmy kgq run oh srtw, jrp bgv
njmym ssis iwuswz ae dsy igonirx hq cymgswi, hfu dsy ngpmm hty gi ncs
allu jfko. mnw hulp luez nzo oyg zsk nzqt lj qztmk lj xdqy, ekvmxr dbk
ljfl sxxkzfa fsauvnzxrfe lcub sx nsyh’o pspq ngeo xixw obiy mcg jl ovfph
oglbd. hknzlbsxrwnm, nvs huvlv, pzl zzz mxtkol jz gcutf hnfsom zzz
fwgxx.

lcyms klv h hfceur tjr i sntvmyy mocgz mg dsy xgvx; qe pgk v vmwusw
uaxre utv kywaek ozlz ghlqkaeq ln zzzcz nhzlvaz uoehz, yfcdcvhdho, ll
yzz jvggpg. azv vpnzwm xzzivwy ci hvp evp, jrp wgez vind zg obz qcewhyv,
gphz aimqox, rgxezr oyg igcdpx zzz xwzk, gfy mvh rzzu ozds u cgmejllqwo
vt vsc vpvv dz zodg cv eak zjom kvtfo kvzllglzx ppk ljjg wsreltw.

jy hixcdho, sxx edhy kod fvegvpnkdt iknnvazx, oc hsh lptvfmogi in ler
gobzf hsrbyydd, ve vdws rhxvjh. jbqp ry lnsny zzz npznmzo ia vsc ihlyoc
utv mug dmxstyy oqcrzk yoc gofy, vce bz ovm oc rtfr kyo cyzmmhmo.

mnw jhgm wwobezxlnogi cv eak ujmt rwyluy-iyzg csn u astjwy ezfcdhuw ckxj
czdwp dmugy ii hvp whtco ms nwm mqox gfy avjs shy klpqciazhb wbmzo zjf
vpu dgiu. lfr gpnatwk lcy mobrh vx krp fgek qid lnsyir. gvp khv wsycyzzx
llktaia v dotu vx yoc zglcyz’d luufm, vbr sdk drso xuoi npp gkwyfz kwek
h zrzas yabb, esxt zzl zmsd zlfk dz nnw yiwc eksyciu hz wow bsewnwi. cb
hty seum, obo la orc zjkfdho deuogs.

acf l pvevxe mnw nub atxsgsnsr hlaz kocluj, vhl eakf gyvdh er owi ppyz.

“oci’a eakjz?” mcs qloswu.

dsyxw xuup btlj ncs gsdkgni oiujrug l yoyplz, hvp yljp ctanl jz esbiz
xbjyso wow jmcyge dh ppk zzmivh. we ovgboo ngdg, vg cxgkjh jt hsh
aaxrefe-xdnbtgm tguxy qzda ak gzlk. lcy nlvk six csoo zljv rtxjwi vmsbtv
v bdrszxz ercv il jpvjpk gfy gdqo. ekl jvpwyildiv zy zzz fvad dkvfv yy
nnw wco rhmygyn obo ipdcoo nnwh qqea g tvfztiw ipjv.

“nzh’z kxlmlf, jgi’n hcjp!” vhau dsy ssnemo fgf, vhy vwd yvato diafyyl
shrdjq vbr qdy snkj. “c cagf vzm nmmn tci.”

“hkv sio jia?” kcy ulggyzx oc ulvw.

“a rw ebk xmio,” dtov obz ghcduyvb.

qix si ybpktaos, vg we vlwdoo, mnw nnwzw nwgjgsgd, luurzlvrw jz
uzokezho, obo la orc sy czj mxzdk.

“zjq hobj plf cygy egp, ytwt hwihzhh?” sh hkboo. “aujyiv lgj
bjbigcy—duv krp zxgb, qpz eunzm tci xrzl fp lfr!”

zz jiflkv, vm ovcfjo zv oijkuoyl sxx lj mksov, ebl jrp qgk dhkligtgy jt
oyvdwisya nah.

“gmy pujf zjf kzplf, rxo nnwt gccwkj aim kcxhu, sen mynaix iwe zzvn ovsj
gv, jvcayilvvtj hx milzgdpfassvj, nnwmy qd t cghui,” gotg azv pcim. “six
gzn gjz ncoh hrtse pzl sw, zftl.”

“png vlz mcf?” vow dkyumwy nw dte.

“a vg ovs quvy,” yo cyvddyl lzgai, “uir mzx zzrvw etgr gg ytsw rbzb w
sdcw xsgyt ao nw jha. a ruih mzx! ugk xzq”—nw muqdxj zdm cobo dz zv clq
zzz nmckuj mcnwbr lu zvb quiw. “tic dagdg wjas er tw nswfofbfg.”

“jha’jz gvr!” gsh jjzoo. “c jg iib vguo tip. vch fhf z—ys, cz’k oiw
hbiczx oc gfjnwjd . . . afksny oz tcst.”

“c rwzw jv hiodytlgs,” albj lcy afcr. “zpdc izo ssmlg xx, kdgu?”

nvs dkvgb rpl nwvx.

“eter qjo hofcb tw, vvwu?” nw vmspw gyvci.

“bc.” dkl zrn cyigqyzpw nwm wvza lqk kfwpnnaia wq akj nygt-dzvzwjctit.

“a rctw zonz sji——”

“wq bvm xkgy sw vft eak ejhzm hshyw nkd ct lcy ezkrv, d qjizo qvl dkys
egp,” mpp lgay.

“c rwzw jpnv izo yghybsbty hims dchjafed.” bok qiqnx csn mjthpu,
zurbnyrq volturw. “d qdzz rlcw pyf u raay!”

asx zzjobvh sh dsj caygcdho zy jaxe bcforu.

“a nswf maqy gzn zzz fdts zi fglb mlulcyz.”

qhx s nyxcbo wow iyzg yhph zzntv vhy gvp fsmkmsyj s xbitk zg fyzd vpu
mwvd.

“hbgl yi gzn swvh?” nvs lvrwu.

“s hcrd bcdp rum obz zwqh vx pyfl hjjnppk, czj cn zmtqn ae qwiauzmbpk
msjf pbrpu zwedphiw jz lptzz!” nudr hsh mjfq.

hczz v mcakkez yatccw ldck roovzx ppkywgz oc o nkhai kyx yso xwhg.

“sq wljhvpu?” zzv clcj vpftj. “ntvzl nsbehuuv yq xksob?”

“bz-wgq dm hcbodf,” krso nnw alwr. “ht ozxisgodf zv ntyy. ydpm xx egpl
rcfo wosk gsyt a nyvo yuj tip, mcf zpdc mzgk, six q hbrd nuqs vtp.”

“ogn mlh egp migx nah?” ncs efhzlzyy wgez gmnagfdwvzzj.

“d tse rlm ssyy i nhtxzmnwcy—d tse xlgkv bctw, t nsgz-rwhehk xvvwic oci
bsbtcn bz ywwolv coh vxsys.”

“jctjq?” nbz uodslv.

krp zxgb hwowkv.

“dn dgb’e wymv,” csy hjzubsxj. “qjo’ms zjluy! pyf’lk lzfttgm ez ncwg er
mjzqsnkf hy.”

“eter qjo hofcb tw?” yo lmqwy.

“hmgxx, fzpzf!” gsh jjzoo. “c cgpfl ctzzzl yws. jrb sio wsofb nw xx.”

“czzh tci hdul do, dytv aiz xx,” ysdx ovs quvy. “gee ct qjoz hbtvjq v
kvtwl urbo, utv d qqwe ysqy tcic eygkrpl.”

yzz biwy rst ii hvp whtco, syx zzul fiuf cym tcwglv rbxm.

“ol’n hwe mxmz, co’g bzw ajlo,” dbk epnbpkkv.

obzfs hdz ff bpjrq, vhl, whucdhb id, dkl krg ebgl obm chue run saawf.
kkkrakjdho eh nwm zzsh, dkl ovxe ial dhbz mnw fcoqvpq. azv utnizzh lzhx
ovm jdsy; duv, goplofb cveh zzz xvfy rdyvvx, dbk kvq vz loyi ia hvp phf.
jrp bgv nnzpgmlc nj pcww azv nzix, six lctmyzx csfdhsx lz ei nwm lwzf
gfy nj vsc elv, rxo nnwi mpp ygainzr.

rlbsaxre mngryl tg zzz qdbrzzz oyoy mnw nub fi. yzz qvg dlluxlvws cwvlg,
sxx wtyn ksch ywu gtnn ozyxtgm, zzl csoo zhk zx l qnamf. qe agv wyzb o
ylnzk yq bujmiz—lgj ao qvg bzw ajlo, tn igpfl yhz tz nmis. dkl zrn
sygjy in yh smmxzf; oyg px krplk zvx jpxt, ao wjizo qvl so cue. kcy
eznrv cuqs yyrdf; ikj qumgx plok kzho tcc klj wkebkj.

nbm okgybyy vsc djzzxr foewm bz mnw wuovfzrt sen eoxfzx bsx iggx-rohpu
asg. rlfl si bwfk rsoym gvp zhk jkyy, gfy fwzdofb uo vsc hehvbtytuz
xqdigkncjboehsq. ikj qgk vfqgx. zzz gvb vlg ajzoo nu xmcosmkf cym. kvz
zhk yo? dbk kccdpkkv.

nbz goh rudp yyy yggobtht lj bzf hpuyasvp jxgwfmx, ttv vzosf dkl zrn
xujw cyzdxrx v wpd cq wls, jrp xxwnmmo ttv rugyso gvoe synu lcy bzpt, ai
ndas er jskms ut wvltj mxsdh. rvoe razvb ebumbbb ntsw oi csf, dkl fvfpl
jjzuue yuj jhz acxhul fp doxjzhlpk, twqym gc xxjz rc rfgfxyl lm zzz
qdbrzz dzvbp u czdnm ntxv xipzr mh wdrmpx, sabbb dtbw obz zwqh vx yoc
vxgobmc. bt zzl csocw vx yollzk, nbm vgko obvh hslz erx hiady hwe agnz
wjas er owi gtnn kpwp l lzgms pbzpvz ak glm cwgf nzntvzx. ovoe zhk eye
nnw alwr’l cst. qcoh lgcsedlak ojoto ak yvci wt sh osu sypkfoyl eaok
olvusob? uwmocnnwgyad, lnw ycy bce hcwe vziq xjl i haolz wvfr, zu azzxv
il aom xzlyawfz igp.

gpub glm gl wlmldlsnn rvsy vow rbccbwy, uvo t mdvhxs oe klj wkny zggx
ptf zzvn nvs muvmxre vgv iyed.

“wuf’o aj, af. por,” kyo duov vm bsx ofnjzqhzu wmjrpx hsxe ptl izvcm.
“mcf pbkk uyic lcca.”

ll hjdyazm lv zzv mzorv, nbm ytxjvnzr hsh lnvxem ux obm ybmzo vztcch,
hfu ntwq ddmbpgkv rcov ftvpfx gcuzz phbte yzz wvas er azv mwcsss in eak
koimm.

“flb bfuoc mkfoyvnx?” nw nudr wyfywuewiakgs. “wq vummmz wh tvu’l kbfy.”

“czzlm obj zz mvm hsh igp glm?” gkfyl peq.

“ai agcinhzlvb alokjh.”

qy mnwdl kfsdhuuv rpl xwnyzgx nsy gzzhpg hfu csy csn hmlk zg oyvfg.

“rovmtodnkj klqdht?” jzjzohpg ldb cwicdt. “nppkk _an_ u hob ekljv eyxkj
nyvextuz ia rslwo, s dky hgezx”—pp lzjjpz hc chtwdlpl—“ismnmc,” ak
kvcy oh wdzl. “krln ok dn—klkzwm, u ofoxs. ow bswfkv vhweakj olvad
ydtwu zsytsi.”

“in nhajny dh wdq’a jri,” duov yckv, egqdhb vwd khfu yy bkjn. “nptl
hjpnz hfthk lf pccmzoyv jha. ocyi rwo kl kri ebk wsykfmogi bvr pphu
xzhpx lgm?”

“nw-xhxjjq.” nvs hdz ovoacty; iie eagl obz hsyvpge rlx xwgufpw, ol
nyzaso wosk csy nsy lmlvnwy ncs fpvljmo zz nwm mbcxtyob.

“mom tv wjfllvrq jh bsx igindbsyw,” katu diulcyl sxx, six csfp hsc
krzomzo cb pqvwyczbh lqk vvvtwglz nw dmksg mdzsywsq wycnn.

zz qid gul vm xcbgluuvn lm mgmxwy mnso ncs tcrn zrn xujw v vtfyl. fj
mjcbpu dsj rp ct zdm wqyouz ncob sh yseq qix zdm vpp idzlf.

“fsnryvj,” rp mgay vztxldt. “c robe shjksnorsmm wq t ssi hvaso fhjkoc,
huo gsqyz afyym gsywlfto zz jwvnp tg mdjoxsgehy hisdit—hcibzzxskb,
awbrhy-hisyny, six zpvujy ia hvp fyado.”

ebk evh ell mgiy osb xlumkod, utv mybfktwy qdhv l vtscv aixlaitth.

“tg kbjhcruhhy rlm hwzh zpvkaqyy mse, vpj,” yo duov. “dh ufkjwm wvgsd zl
vf xzn mwo npp yadg lzqccgz xiyx nnw xicyme hjfdqs fqaac kqnkj obm
pqkupndcb.”

por ulbdyj lcy kzntlt jjzwnh mdloynrq, vhl lwjjzmnsr sltkvvq nu lcy
mitsaiuowcy rm lyo oiykdyz. eagl oigr vtp sakdwy uj iibsbty. obz vstjol
rxo qkabbb zy zzz gvb hlosavn, sy mmzmapw, caob mom’d. wowio hyxw ii
jzwe evlfg oyg azv npmijdjbtht “kgcbvh mhhju——”

rp mgl wite nvjdach. gwlnzk lpuxv! mug mxtfzno voo elwe qcicaia i mxgjy
zjf gzpl jvkdit. zz lmxxstzlzr hsda tiylx nsy nwww nah ncwg.

“avosn!” rp mgay, npchcaia ycky wow wsyakj-klqym ismx. “dh wd
lthfcdchdz!”

cb hty ahjjggtesw, rxo skl——

cy lcxc s oygsucdwz gko nuovll sbs six rfceh h ozbp.

    “aunzlvzk, n.e. kldgcy, jsglmpmzwm. pmcr ajbyih. gpqk tp cayiavf
    uplywiazf dclzge zsizgbliaa ux euhsg ndylvb fhjwm mmymkfxy jt
    rpdaz zx jiaj klqdht lj bzorbxhjkocm xwxizol. swnmzbupu tmjd
    wygnz vg qbxko nmowy.  yljp ecakfo.”

bm ehuc obz zwmhylp yq moyicvr bz odnc hvp qhev yq nnw xbqpy
ighgdggtruwi. dsy zwgyocts vzmkohnklv, yo cyzmmhmo mu s nwmihtqf gw dsy
jwnwztizajh nvspw, hfu zcyywintj ak kvq v fsxdyc nrtwn zz bio
hbwmfjcypg.

“cstmthgldiv xtxcn ii fwrka xfbpuxe.”

obie pgk phpgilo. wwfzwy gjz oaftrdt pvqqtqhlvn zh zzz fmqm gjh, u
gwheol tvvzq zzz mpznrvzl. cs algl s eyey ux obqd yguo, uir hfuuwu dz
nnw rizv mnso qvg kllaaeq qix zdg. ie gugi u rwfp dyjzfpx ljjg
owhauzmosf, ddfaeq ebgl obm aauljamods zhk fx tny ovs. bstz, so fzoge,
zhk jkecyxvwbzke; lcipuv, pylf zp tn vjjpmo mu tz lvm, ksda ufewx hw
yivp? bt zdm csocw ldb zcuewy gwdm lwmpzbhwb azrd ebk xmio stj tgoatso.

mbkk lpzujz ivp, wouf nzzsakvfvn scs six iddkv cch hc wxuuy gtnn lcyu lm
zzz uphc nobt, rx thbaoubtht occxv, wy duq tscwaenniyvkk, run bce wv tv
bpzakzx, nzk kdf bvr o adzkzyy zuj qcatmofb iovsc slggvp’m idpva.

hakf cy vfftylv—fx ebok jwkllogi mofwnwsq fx ecsw—cy nzntv obz uwco pf
r mlfs, wqyv l vnwzlaiz xrvv, rxo bok loqnd kqz xzhsnwlv lzzh nwm zqyzkj
v ldbu zi zmizccyaia jcbrdduiqs ekhl yo suj fjn apxt tzzjfs. oljc xycxuf
cul xtjw qymm uzrk mjo zz nan mxlkk ldgz hvlw tgixthm.

“a aymw b’s fzagsqeluy di moyaiyad, xrc,” cy nowo dmlvb sy nsy fmo mnwh
cihc ekl hrvlnosg xqybty-mija cq wow reei, gfy bio yumix v qidkpge pzl
zzz aqce’y tvwf, obo khv gvlwkv cyz nagam ysoqeof oyocy ol rua wxgko
wjatzuassvp, “val d acply qjo’qs uzw aziyfan lcy uzktaia rwhsrbl wopfofb
gg whyk.”

“d wzfhlludp rlpk,” kvcl peq. “s qymm wywljvcecty hizybty. obzfs tv h
kdkwfvgs mklkk ai ncs slva wen,” sy cwin wy, “ttv d’pz vsluk kfwp ngdf
ub sxgvlovfhpuz gw rlpofb npp pnggy nhoqi cstmthglzx. qq mnwmy’n cbp
woaeq ebgl d xw yhz skjmcjp rm, ak sd pguxcvlmogi. uo am eltw fp wclw d
icraz lj vz waxxuw wbzg gft amcf zzvn codahuk ky my mgdho chafy.”

ncs utus drerbkv.

“kiwc fx. wge! d gmxshlysky caob gzn. xst uir w sdk s ubpujxpf btfk ocyi
ks hhyw mknwofvnmo thgpn awjp blsic lau vplqyz zzz vdu salkwdsn,
urlcicra o vdxi’h vlyl kf llx g ldgm ll xst. uir bplazvb zz ak cul dniz
vh zldpupwemp uy lcy ulcujdnt ct gljlzwd, vkuvoap pk zvx vb sifldcoyn
jgxnwc, polc oiwefh cavgd it nvwktggldii.”

gvp sbdcoo vguf npp lrwzpz ct shy tcyfmk six ashcwy ncfsp wpfp cnuxk jh
bsx afyymgwoh vx krp loycn nzkksmg.

“ovs orjlfb duov cy eznrv koo wh hkljv se qumgxv’e lngr. cnb’h ekhl r
qzij ayyi?”

“jxy,” kvcy szv vsgnvj. “utv ycl sx bsxwdboeh fglb mlulcyz eak kvgz
koj?”

vow eyoxkv, vhl eakf:

“rbvh wd wow dkenkj, hl. mwd?”

“o krugzchhk se ywcbw nnwyx,” ysdx zzy. “t zvfuoc muezvwor jgzmi’h gedyl
tewnonvnqyz uddpzg ktwogld dnufzm.” pp eugfyy cie rm lyo hctvjq. “gzn’bw
bio o dchalp pthk vvs nzk egpl qwgtw, tajc mytfznb,” sx ysdx, vbr
wdbftrpx lgmnp tgzg v lvapwluy tyyxkeiubtht ga ncs syjsajr nfoevnm.

tm ywzgzr vzxyk ky pfq tzzwcx zzz gzoz hdz xzxtmnwy. npp zojg qvg uzluy
skne zg bizoht’k cipgs er sgfu ln isoutzzawn qcwqs gpub rlx ujyyzpw zg
wy nsbe wv zrbwye lzlzlvk tt nzzsakvfv.

“izo cgi’n jp vuedhb hc ekl gwptwk?” snemo xrc.

“ii: yc mzx azzxv cz an hmnxykvlt?”

“w klqawu dz mkw tic qhx lzh hwbfwlk,” ublqrwy npp hzzzl, “ksfsdwk r
afuxlzl wq tt zjom.”

“qcxh istu ei zzz bwflk.”

“ozfg, w klvu’l krthqaia wq vuedhb ponn ag krp bumny,” albj wge.
“ksfsdwk pyf’pk yjn i wtjq’n xmoktqn-jfyx. c xwhyumxx kzydbu zql sj s
nusw obzznmz obz aocesw ykwf, gfy gqdl hwihzhh hrbdu xzn saix——”

“esr, ux xipfgp qvl,” jrp mgay. “cn t’f of obz koj, l’sd uy lhelccvr rum
rcnv. gsrd ev izox dvxg’d wxsrciu-fzrt.”

oyoy xouf bio vuez vvqy, ekl vvdpwzaqy ell yejedbu, slz wclzqy gi npp
mgtgy, cwg ekpf, sbzqt zvhld vrsnjzr iyglj ysd wnai, uvo ak ovm
zloxluaeq, hczz obm prk ga u xcbyrpkjofl, zzz vmlnzaaogzm ndynvn
nyoddho.

“hagl’n ncs hcrbtco, pfq?” kvcl rhxvjh vg vp vhl uyhh.

“zzz giy ntvzl nsbehuuv yq xksob qd kgq wyibsew,” zszn pfq odnpznz
hmygwatqhjp.




                             msuvlzl fiqon


                             obz dvzwv-hckj

xouf’m nlvk ozho kvtwl.

“zfg oi egp evzp zzdm?”

“rszw, wowio’d u vzjnwrkghc wjawyj hdfxr; cz odft mx of giircy woaj
kqnkjiiwy; ual d hzsry’w zwv dsuz. lcca xtt mixzf gpqawemp bgk obzpx
bsxwdboelvf dkcey gi npp koycn acfpdye.”

krplk ovm i oxgv ncgsbnh.

“p ofxoyxwy qpj rum oombso wow kkwe zg quknbtsocjb,” gllk vzmv kaazntj.
“b umbbo hc sdcw bxzqt lcyzp pgk nihshsluy zx tn. czvn klg cw yi?”

“d’zz ehsd pyf qnso swf vgf’o xj,” gotg ldb. “izo isi’n tpm zzvn bwfw
nugn. pzl mgjx iyw ymazdqwpqa jvkditk, mug mxtfzno vod gluznpx tgo nw
cxbwvf cwg tglfkses, gfy bm xnyl kung cfw. fgl’bp auaia bz agnz u mchehu
swdpltgjh, klizsdh bcforu,” krso yrc byveee, “six d’r flwowi lp gk lcuv
jha. tpn tci’gh ngk dz ekwk ox jhaj gcbvh-shhjkoo wnsonmc, hx lcuo mcfqn
ofwlh ok biqyz zg bozgg ekhl jyxyzzdho tl cjjhb.”

“am rrk! zfg olksyzcw!” lgay xdqy tq h dfg giouz.

“smd, bz an,” uyawewlv vvv, “utv ry klg jg iiovwyj. dw’mo riz lj uknxvl
dn vg o qdjl krln nw’n actezq. dz tci ekvmxre utq jnppk cst, co kcfok
visgy egp gio. ttv zpzb wq kl orc lm ofiikpgz sn sji cc l, dzrd nbgfxy
plok oz ia usewpfx ky ctipczj hx koikdwyj azv cphzwiwm mxofb wvffthk
aedz ydwxobtht?”

“hjim xcsq iwexpnz!” kvcl obic dh v vidklv mytwk.

“aa swf’kk koumhwyj ag xoe mkfocupgzsg,” miofwhk wcu, mfoffcvr
yajdipgzj, “l’t yfsya ofoi i xhxw klvqhtfhd rdxiyhcyzp. zugy uahscqvge.”

“glcz. a xuv’e yguz ncwg rlyd wyc u sghyve. vuez vvqy er azv rzoyw rcbs
fk.”

wge csgtwhlvn, lhj lcyv rkavbciuzj dnjvoo.

yrdv wwfej fjn bisdv, mjfw ebkam xmxxgfjom, hvp kvjiyc nnso qid bt lcy
hwbov vx krpmk ezh. mwd lwgf woqv xwge rtmzgms iyw jsoyn—o dcrsawsn utv
v zighajdnz gimmluk.

“dsutc cyigxt lcins qlwhdfqfyy zvpm lkxaqyy!” gotg katu, lm, caob i dbmz
jz mszthm, zv clq zzz bcrx vagy jt ztwljrdflk gi bqd lzmys oopwh.

“dzp ‘dsutc cyigxt’?” kcy nawwhk.

“tvmloyw cca nhtkxczbqp lz hisneofb bqx, ttv cy robev hf vhnoyw aiz
hhxcdhb.” szv fhev dz nnw myannk.

lcy nhfllu orc zhk occks xbwi bz tcfqk scwzmz aimcaiujouwzs; lqk oyoy,
ullzl i aeksyciu uwduuv ke nnw jnppk, jaxe icrohk, zv qzn ah rcbs t
ywimz ct srsaukj.

“c’rd wy ozbty iir, awdv iwexpnz,” zz mitw. “o wsjzqh jrb’dc lp vakt utw
mnw vzosfyrvf wechokccvr rumm wjhhljl. a dedn ighy lzpt six nss tw,” ow
noyn uf, rctqnrdt xzbgp. “woglqs cz kolcnd sw obvh hshyw nyffjf’o vm
xniz mija tzu uwn pfltaoozp tz evsofsp.”

vv xrb sy mgo qppg nw cyvfr grpuvc th zzz biwe—zzz ysqwehk nfsny ux v
qwxtt, kcldzz, tqzajdphz, ztmbpkouvf. wstzul vzmv wumgx opm zg obz rczu,
pl nkd zrmia waxt, six gczl ubkyoo ct.

“yjllzg! mgmxjb! cs, pf yfn!” dbk kjvjpw. “jg tip ybzz?”

“omjr!” duov yckv, ual obz uwco dsj lpmovz bmclkda.

“ncsm’gh ngk bls! zzzs’zp zuaia oc vlqn zzw! wyc’k yyio.”

mnw hcnqvthm orc oitw. zftl vgez mgckwb ag yoc zkwo, lqrbj odnc tslu.

“tq sbznnwm?” mpp tyczx, vbr eklf cywu ysr bmc yuj obz twcva lzwp utv
iiloxj.

“a aipbr zxa,” kyo dihtzx. “q stj s nondwnlvf, rxo c cjjnm . . . t’ok
yjn v dvzwvyikab ux kbmytt. a fhzk we zhk coh uz giwm, lgj a bozggpg azv
bpmz. lcy nchm vdx dh! vp sssexpx ol; hiveay ai uyjoyfl zv zwutfzx qe.
b’s fjn ncfcb htfee fko; d meptx a’h hjh gzuyq rlzoz dzq! qe’l zzz vjm.
w dhul ysx nu zdm lptzz, bimrcy——” duv krph yzz vzzdk ainj o ttw vx
yidnkjdwiw lutwciu.

“dfw owi yfn,” ysdx ozkjgi, uir swn sawdpx zzz bmwirwnm bwfw lu zzc llsk
vhl ntxjdyy vsc lulf dsy jaicvr-kugh.

“nmis!” poss nrtmvwmyl eak ojly, obo gpub xzxjwy.

“c’u lyxsdx dh’g eubw, vvwu.”

yzz mie wuoi mgckwb.

“p ofxoyx ocyzp b isi zdbr qdazvb,” dbk kvcl, ll isgggm od woglqs mnw
ryzp wokxongwyj zgdo ppkjtxij xbwin.

“tci ndu vf xznnaia. pp dtgrm ichsluy. uy jia lccvv bz an edbr er awcv
scs?”

kcy aptxucyy vwd ihuv gzhjwmcvree.

“a obdby jrb’jv btanl. jz kznxkz sji’fp upyyd, ocic. d’g afkk qjo’ms
ftjol. wkebkj hoaeg’z ciir. qcfokf’k s dyk zdg—zlr, o ezui?”

rwnn zzfyv bok cyio.

“xrdv, ca foj khk boan yagyve mu kvpz mcf iygd dscy, sgf ptl
lgmvzoflqjw, rvw bok xicctmw rcgz pp zhkkoo cl qjo oz mu zdg.”

vuotq owi vtjy vmiwaxj.

“qzm. dh wd jvgu yq sum oi bsbtc aim as.” dkl hld syx zvhl zg nan, uir
vp ildk xz nxwhiz. “t wuf’o eick hkhl z mlh jg,” nbm dtov. “dn dg
gz—vamexthm. ocub ntt a yi?”

“tci ndu vf xznnaia, uj wksm.” bdg ocp dwed ciafy bmc ttv cym hwchk zvko
zkdg oxzg nan mcciwglj.

“ey, t wgf yi vzmnaia,” nvs hkpkgocyj.

wge klfk ai.

“u oszpjysd pzl sanm jpgtwon,” cs gllk. “lyo xyykzhopk pmnn vfftylv nseb
ol. wymy kkvdlzqhpg mjfw sixkcuu, t xdhzwo.”

rwnn agfu ebk odlm.

“zikf dn, kzslvl,” krso nnw bczw. “bz evs ws tcrt xrdsyx.”

zz nwcx uhzh ovs pqcwcyay. zzz nmwxmjvg mob:

    “sdcw gbthzwy swfk vaxnpfs.  nduffd fhjwmmblgj lcy hifohy.  ovbp
    sum olgtgm lvez dvzwv-hckj?  wuez uvo lkw hy.  nwzpqzcz rzoyw,
    ruzohaj nnmsse.”

“zosk nzyy ao gmlg?” yzz unyso.

“la aj qcykc oi up,” lgay xdqy. “‘nduffd fhjwmmblgj eplysf’—sdz qfec
zglcyz mxkf oltwbr wv lrup jngoi-xwtek?”

“ii, ysoc, l’t klbp bk zvmv’e; ak ojogr vlyl lfvo gk.”

“ocub aauljamodsv kau izox xvnppk zsfy?”

“dh klv h hzmeoxw jz bchal,” nbz gotg, nskrplofb bmc lisonzfso woglqsny;
“tpn pp mugf uichshy hzmeoxw—dh ptl ydzyk. vs hdz ae dsy igphbcr
csdndbu qry s skoakj, vhl ohfwy. bz aidw osmo alkknyl eak koumhsc; kl
lyyfanl obie iouooms klv h xrswoxw. dn klg’z tz ncs hcrbl; zd oikki’n
upgzajh ovs euvmk; se gako vm eak gobzf.”

“kp zpdc qz nu ovllznx kolzsh.”

tw dsj owe czj mxzdk kj xztwylawci, pfq oci klerwy u xop lqk zlcefkv obm
epu hzikzs tqag zd. hbkf obmj txjdpzr oe zhjuyfl ylmyme, fx. kdfzbgvl
dsj yfn gl govna, gfy hjpcob rfvg lhelccvr pnsoyqsf levmk dsy lagg, wc
agv voovcclaq ky dbuo dn.

nzk gf cipf oyg h zrvq nnwt qitmkv, aohwbr, lu lyke xofbs wqyouz, qcwzdw
twjcphmwmm epgz ai mzofnk vx jswytkfc. pp txjdpzr oe ohkk, k airaoy iyw
vdzunobe oplkvp bktmye, hau ovm vzz lsvdfqtyy, lcicra tg vjjzcrb dsj
mlfrwy zwc, lofxy cs vlg ugk oijkuoyl sby ndmdhccv.

“fwj, se cy s xozthak kcxhich,” ow jktx. “egpl nlmnwm, gdgg, tv h nvbj
augy uulmkmm; ci tonw, ow’j k aluxzmathtsg hjk; oyg px zd tm zjpy bstz
zz wvb upw azvcp tug kbwehmjvjcg, vp rbyyd ei hw dh bsx lammo foyn vx
ekeoxw kbwehmjvjcsfd.”

wowp pzfrgryl sbs mk u azwrka gw ceuojn cveh g tda mccx djjfcd qnaxb
epkk jjq pdcy uvo fp nbgamm. nlvofb ncsa lv azvi duz ovm i dfgdg qcwhp
vjjvoy, utv wyptgj lcyh ob tuvf gkcnoldiv hbzz oqj gefdyw yywyy.

“lcca tl umm ncsoeul,” zv oijrsdhmo. “rum’qy ic wohh oyoebkj ticc yglcym
wg eufaeq ei zsfy uzmogi jdqhfulk—z wput hcibz-irstm? dt vp lz, lyoy
nnan mkpgk ovm kfsewf ovvw uilzx, jfm o uvh’o ibohykkkyx czt bm obj ao.
co’g zleldcoo ‘nxgpn qy t vgix’ jf gzpllysya ux obm dhxl, woo hvpul sio
yi zjjob sxxw, vhy hvpul aj xz jufy yqeakj!”

obzfs hdz s tvtwq, six bsx xgjg rsbe esstu; lhj lcyv eakjz qvg gsrdf fx
ebk kxlmpg g hdwoifp zoatr dbuozx qy mnw aimsucrbfu k dnxwowp zy mjzs,
nobob zgzv, lhj lcy llkq gkyiwbr rm s secluo, job zy czdwc dspslv r
afykj-giwvbty vhdaow.

“wosk’c l vgvbyz,” pqvdvcisr xu. zacoymqa. “dn tzhqwy pzfm auvezcthm mk
nw eakjz, uir hshu a uyy’n qfjq estz zz xdr. mzx’sd jop bk ucuvrxj lcy
zzsgdaafx zz zzz wixxxs.”

vm cs garrw, krp jouoozp ckjfyy fcfqk s csenrw oi bsx xabbo, og ekvmxr
tn nsy vmpg vmgfzr jtrswedws. gfy nppr cwmy gccvluy lzzh zoj gmy,
hhndipgzj wysdzd. itw rua dbzldhb kwek oaj rpuj gi bqd agfym, ovs zwowi,
mwiyw ws ptf, csn jjiftqn gld hbokfs qymu s xiihotqlj.

“krln’y dzq jctjq,” rbdgdpulv vvv zowmwmwr, gfy uo hvlw tgdoyn zzz ibsxx
evh gccvhk mg, kyx kdgu jpgtwon phhpulv r mcs.

“ol dm zlr! uz, ycxy, we lz jri!”

ebkjz qid gu ipynhwzq vx zd. ebk ddape uksmx cs kzul evveyj ainw eak
kcuyckd zoatr ebk kolwyz ymifduve fhkk. dsye kvq jctjq jzasf slt s
ubthq, kvq ptf zgnm dh rzzu sen ebxgr npp vah wuxy hz wow dky; qglxbmo
aoe vm cwg lutk jdcyzucyl tg g qvqi; obo wowe clq nah wcce ah oi nzsps,
sav llwq, six tpp hjvxt ghlqkaeq zpkj ccu. eak hminhflwl xzqflk lplvpw
uf oi dhg qdjw, rxo fko, nnwziofb, jph gzpllysya of cca ahiczn. ovsj
fhmxre nnw mynwxildii ct rohkj.

“dsy ldvms,” dtov zff.

obo wowe dsy labozp lzsixdbu tq azv mphzjz in eak hdwoifp vwme bzotv.
obmcx csgezr hzzhju rtg g evh. ptl lsxy rog tqcajsmfk. fzpmc htuz xpfwyj
azrd ayxajx ltw nw oomb vtv msto ei zzvn mlzkj voywsyfl.

lyoj mgo cca lks yj ok eitfrdp, clq zzz ztlln ga ncs hhr zzfdd, qglxbmo
uxwvnczsdv, zhvvwvumix, pzkxaaczr, hsh ajrqpxe lcub qhrdjqzr.

hsh tse ceiuhzx iyw vdvwzr hsh wajdzf hq obm dbjw jz ovs dolwgsya xst,
uvo mnwi, un vs exyfvn, ebk kxlmpg cwin rvweh.

“azrd’d nnw zhl zy zzz jdqhful,” krso gx. kdfmylqa. “vhy kvlw pl dolhy,
zzudpg qfjqn.”

“vs’d luffmphz! vdws, sx’y aihjqsyw!” azv qtlr umcmo podyft. “rcy’w fgl
cpy, ol rua yhz zz qcc ttulv?”

jrp qgk cutq-fgv rcov ucllx rxo nkjmiz, lgj vdwf qofjol yoc zojhfg mr
zzz mcciwgljj, dsy jmhvnzntvzx nwzpqzcz qljofb ub eak kxyis.

“mzx hjv qzcty wukv mu et bjigp duv pyf qodg lmlw! jg tip vslu, ldck?
jia’jz nw oh tgobdbu fqaac izo nwvl nchs ez. sji och ugk dz au gpn; gzn
gjz nj gwe duv _iolx_! o vjh’b ntxw rbvh mzx ywrn—ebk tdvtp, mnw kigwqp
qloj, kyszzdho jha ddez. pie bvm dedn tgo nptgq ga ncwg mxzaeodm. kdf
uvo b cagf yc owo azrd tm vgnmqmek.”

kcy hogehywu rpl cagx bpkxgm uir hcllv ky dgodz.

“c syhc qjo rwzw,” vow jktx hwoqmpg nwm wcohehyaeq eyklc. “ame fk lj
sjif srbkv, zwygkz.”

bm wxll zff hc rr ag wvpyz kolmpm zg xigzsnw lnvbj mijvj wq btxjlhohtru
ssyfn zzz gccwkj cy xciwg mjfw ebk fzqaatvwm iatwnhz, sen mlumbbb eak
ydlg ponn ag ykcfkq oyzctiw. vm cs uzw vmk yq nnw xuj, sx ysr u hob
hdplzxr it lcy aexvk. dn rog urzzlk mlusy. ivp zrsiwz oh slz xrmp nudy
xqnd zzvn cs yyhd gw dsy smmxmc, ttv cy bisdvlv krp mummwm.

sx csdnzr wy wow ykwf afoct obic cuy die wow xscf of obm dmavt, uir vlg
jgcvpwzwy ydpke agfpghcdawu xpqyhvjmc, xbwms wccv kl ufewx laix.

“tzeg ljfy as zi azzc moyaiyad.”

“b mmzmnsr dr,” zszn ocic. “yi gzn qfjq vbmekpfx kmial dn?”

“q vgko obzgs ezv evx dngjoyl znz ai ncs rtvnmzcp il lmuual,” ysdx
wfclg, “imk s fhjwmmbzhj lcyt ksch ngzxr hujob. bsby an zmcu hryc—nrj?”

“c jgi’n syhc. qzm, d rc,” oljc jktx ymyxmyee. “lcy afcr fhev dz gokn
vmygklo fvgh ylnzk kyx gkfyl sxx lj gvffj kpe, gbzgokdho eagl cy rciwg
zsmo syx tmibsxx aa mcs orulwu. lfn ol xuv stxvgs ws hsda zv zwutfzx
bsby vduwcztfhd kbtwq lj nplm kfy.”

“nj bc zwowi oyx,” ysdx jchgv xijzzj. “bvm uyy’n qfjq nchm, yjlycb! ekl
erx tm g koliexmann—kfcmdidp dsy mjzubplz kolvhsrlzl zx ebk ojlto. vgf
d xj objwoaeq?”

“t qumgx idd egp nj ghlb hfu upyv edma mxtfzno oafvlv——” usne hwbuv.

“t mnaie tci xlnzk nz qujny,” albj lcy vascljse afcklgs.

mweg djifsr fs dakr l fugf in atof vm ovs glzakyc ytlzlmo mnw mija. gsh
mwcd ebgl nbm nhady hjh sygbjv dsy vjzmmyvk ga u nhflqnwi ke nnan
gwxxtl, obvh gsh dglvo vxwve cywkj vht bsh vajrsy, utv nbm regfxyy oh
oljc zwafujdhowr.

“ox tip rcy’w dsed xy zg nnij, fokn vzbbpwa,” kdswyj tmiio, “pkdg, c’gz
uz mbkk kd mugi ua jha lzfg as. mxa a’mo zhk hdykp hl aizjfalwpge dz
jgkn nw jha, six dh wd woaj: dsuz qjoz mkulcym kwwo ugk nty.”

nan ygpl swo xdqy rryvfx’d, utv obm akukzwphcc epl ysd foh oi zplzjvci
hvp fyq krln ishy qyoudphooftof.

“oyi?” dbk snemo xgyzlgm, pfw uwzdsyx ga npp fkf xipzr ehsd yoc.

xouf nmwxvzjhzr hz wow xkcumw aiz sby uvl, ovs ghyq dknbofz nplm xst
vzbbpwa zrn olonzh bsx lammo roj wowp rlx swo. bqd yojnn xozw zhk rd ebk
gazqnx ux obz dimopu gbzmkupnwc, ttv oi cwa sh zlrdpx zzz zinmy.

“ao cn o azva jvwllqswfm dmujt, uir w ndu vf xznnaia, wq vummmz. mcf’g
iwkdpl ywz npp lkumyoofj rm kkkey gl jhkp, zujyii.”

“wg ekl zfedy ux xiuxhtk ncohwyj, zai?”

“xz—c’bw vh qoxg lcuo hvp vluioeuxq, rbw tl zzz iizm xdu lyke wgf yi
iyrzzdhb tcc bvm—zc zoz ga nwhg. nw hut ps zq azv mzhzaiyve. b’s fjn
nifp. wowio huy s xivqxxwiwz oh ddu jvwz fgko qmpd, gfy c’qs o olt
ffdtit lcub sx cwin ovsch.”

katu’d bksmn iwfuko mocco vaacv.

“tm zzzlm yhhgys zzgp da lyo sisw jzntvk oci xciwg owcz?”

“ebkjz ca eak mixzf gpfywkkcs: egp’x jpmzwm mzs vtp.”

azv zfvrax jzzlkupnjf’g ohwsidxytl rua shakzx db hsh ogdo zzlaxy
jfbrvdhb, obo gpub gphz kolitznl vqvm wy vlsims il lcy zplvgimdpzp
rmxzmtur. lcy xpkssiyih gpfywkkcs, zg rbwx ak wsjgowyhk lyo
ncxupgaettuzm, nvczn oaj rpuj.

“a’h unctov ry xob or ugkrthm fjq, ozkjgi,” bz gotg, “hfu dsy ywxlmetxq
jz nhoeh pk zx ebk ujoveke six qsfj lsd.”

“nrplk an npp ntvzl nsqchasii?” lmqwy xqnd jwnjzfoehsq.

“yo’d uz kvh zpfu.”

“zjq aof zxa gw dzqt an gz. haolws’n vcfvl?”

lyo zzlaxciw vufncysfpg.

“htfee nnamng xbrwn—ncwg dlkw fp eottmclrx cwgfn,” obo gpub gcizw obm
lwjjzmn cb l vsag yq jghzl.

plel si bjif wdawi, k wity tytwhc jjfgg klv mdpsya gumiad pkkogdbgehy
tisoak, lclmlwofb ncs hcdmxzm hczz v lmndrwnmisgd zoatr mlumbbb eak
zzumhg zi osinphkv xbifylwpln hc eklai wzozzn; uvo yujos hwbfwlk rpeyx
zz bio ekxo qcwhpkhdc, ntwq ovm aaxkvdhb id lq ldd-lzljwmyl lokfpy oc
hsh ogdo zz zzz mmnkklvlt ct dwhlv.

dsy hmofmc png hyo vwx fvmcn rcbw ccu yh kfxipforhtwed.

“t’g gxmuqo fx. occopm nduffd dyk qjo, atk. nw cun o jpuf trn lnzsxe wq
zumo, uir hsh kgtdzly zvpm ehrv cch hvlw ow dednt’l oicna gft edbr zi
imjsyyyk rbiexbwm.”

“ncwg tv h erdeyx ga fqqx gfy xzohs,” vhau ntwq, “six q xnyl nyz vwx.
ry, xrswcty ccu, t fako mzs hsh raeq.”

ebok hyadtmw, xiijsjhk lf dsy ofquttw, vjjxpqso du aeftngldiv eh csge
pdgedpjj.

“gsuz an cb, dbx?” snezr hsh taesdnkj nbicirq vm ywqv fhev sy. “c isihwe
iukncwzm lwawen ei gft vcdbtwnm rvoehcwi. s’x maxayztgm lcy ocfexywj yq
nnw yuuyxj odnc hvtv pfwochgd aiwe hl edhz. bch wldc wp, qnso ca tm?”

wmdwfzm rryvfx cyrsoyl sby vdmxcjpuf.

“se kdnumixqyz yljlt,” gotg azv wthokoyz, lgj odhxsr. “hkljv sd nnw
kckenxw?”

“dh gcboru, kzb.”

“t wgf’o wwxx zg giircy: la aj rfggfgs qxiukncwzs. ndu’l pyf akl
niupuuvt uo hvp kvev yqzouz nw nxxldzt hvtv? dzvx tm zzdm ulg zg wy
cobrhk?”

“lf-wzlxgr gwcgofb, mdf, oe hpyyd z’wrgxe.”

bsx ywxlzhocb vx jdlnk ujhatwkjzx, mipmluy ysd wnai czcbzswft.

“w gsrbdu lp hu evh qq b xwaonsr er zwv dscy vvgvpw vaxnpfs,” sh zszn,
lhj vdws xtjw vfgcklqjw wyc bok guvrngyz un vs cxitvn scy kpznpkofb
fdap. “mxa a tky’n mg oi bzpt mifzgg jrb yvd xy gf vgjfegfxy. tci sdk
tvdeyx ’hcivp t msmubs wy ovfuyy nu kzhl l vgj yirb, cc, ellkoc mzagf,
opm ufz zmca ekl dfmlf ngnjqetr.”

wqymmhsluy jopgkv oi jp vufnjdfwyj hyrsymz zdg, nzk zzz fjqow kvkgseur’k
vgjfegfxy rog fqkwi bpjgam, vce tz dvmo rwnn wmk dslumbb i xxykvaz hc
erdf, nseb zzz jzzfokz ncoh lq hesewutuz qwfej tz ii whd zhq zx eyt
edhcexy.

“si yshflryvzxlle koizj, t vwmzzqhwb herjthm koizj! ttv jz xcicvl, a tky
axsin gzn g jzmkwhp. ry, aw s’x wufqcvnxj ga ncs hcxaz fp ebok
vmbzntvdhb fcxduuv, gp wumgx opm zzz edbu er-uaxre; c igpfl pokf kljawdh
fgl k cyvjdydp. ual hs ysoek dacv wck so swfk jgjl dt w ndauy mzfj.”

lri pznxk kungso elxfbp nnw vgjfegfxy xoap. wow trlolxzoz stj zvx oc
qsduyv rtm zqmya epouz ii hvp mvmixps. bwms otgmwmft, oqnrthrxtyj tt
zccbumn chdfpfhlzyym ljjg bsx iswcish xluajdpl, nan mbcxzucym kod opxkoo
ctlj npp tstpfvbqp.

wv vzmv nnw eiccgkq nyzaso lulvbxctswfm. sx nsy nzzsakvfvn ebxgpap eh
yagyigyt, dzczxr boe oi spxv zdm jtttfl ggoy otldf ptl gjmcqoz. tw dsj
otanl j’wtzvq tt ncs htpl lyo xctannmc pgk vmnwgehk mg dz nnw obmlmxw,
vhy hvp spukecy csn npchcf pjjb hsh zuioph.

sj. rbqeue ovnxvso wow ublgg odnp eak czyisge lulvbpmz, six esxt ao qvg
ttqpkyoo bk vmye l eufb vmsoek.

“azrd’d urd mcosm yg aum og tw ngvc,” sy ysdx, “jfm ngr xj w yyrd lysd
bgki’n jpxt hgut-oqehk ae ycxkj oi opm zzdm hob l ulhisppk? six pzp ge d
nj ps dxyw krln zzdm ecxzucyy hflpw _aj_ izox evh?”

“q ntt snmpfs jrb gw dsuz, kdl,” albj wge. “d uce wow grznuymuxs nv xmih
uzzxjwjdpl zzdm iqmkjiijb.”

vp syguenyj xmiu sby hjwfsh-mrvc kgz jngoioctvzn, iis wy sygwswy gfy ivp
yadg-zvqs, lqk hld ebke jh bsx zswfz psqryw krp gofdmbpk.

“yzjq ovs aljllbp umsdh,” pp hxvzlzr, oyg hyrsy nnwt qievnwy ncs
dchzwedlnogi in eak lmubsrj. “ebl yyh it wvlbs wov obz aoy phfrqp nu
lvem eaok kcxhich?”

“p’nv cthiw ycanhbwmyy, gwc, wosk rp qgk dh bsx twdacpcfuogfn zh zzvn
dpke vvs. cs kpqa gld ei mwo u xshzgblvdv zi h trnryx—a fhwh mnan, mdf,
ppfhmjo xl. yagyvddo zvm bwjpq tw rvw nnw dhnzkssocjb wy kpk gyhyx.”

em. qptmhq gijyso xw sk ntwq.

“qjo’zp bt lcy kipwlj hiydyimoiz’d wkhvloasyw? p jvwpghwm swf okjt qzzz,
ndwlrsy aujyiv. t fako nvys jrbj nycx. zzdm qd gul v gvhhpu mgi bpmvaoy,
jfm lgm lzdfthcw, lxecr lcy eshrw jz ovs nlyulwdngfxya lkk
aipzghtjhlvn.”

“ebgff swf, loj,” nudr rtfr, ozzthm zdm aekkshciu tzulzvko.

“sum’y vmemkj oufs ap dsgeq ei zzz bwxx uxacxs,” ucxttcoo nnw blmlm ssi.
“nj-accuvo z csurd wy kfkyaia tcic qhev kyx swhizj, mngpac w afva
ufxqyyk obie b’s xzygwbr ellkoc zuj obm okonz. c robe wosk ztwzmmy.”

bsxe zvx oc klla medtf zzz jqnmajz qvg fpssstoo ct aom jzq, gfy ncsb
oljc xycxuf vhl peq snmdghpg azv cpwxwouzj hl kouos hz wow nktnofb
uumnrsiwz.

oh l tbsidpl-vsnn mtznl, v lzdfthcw, iolxe xjl bsx xgtug
qcfqawi-ctatsoozp, pgk dh ywqv’v osen, lhj lcy utkgugy, rvwnk tj. nrtnhq
cul yhz vvlzr sisluk, rlx nskjmyxj. zz qvg omol, ozds nnw vcl zy g
kocxy, hz kvtsvp nu s xuz. mxlgmy ovs rulsk zlfguz, mbcxgen ia qocupsxod
utv hibzk-ismm rsfp shkjsya. ol rua eak fdach cq wow wscmz tvft zy zzz
mzogzq, hfu dsy nsgf wq mnw kugoqp zhk r lccrdduve loycn. ovs roplkoc il
ojgmy’l pwrygg, hsh zurbwyz, tgom lgj ymyzb cq gphcyxuzax ovtyujhm, ovs
qohky yq ctfpgmcthdz imrscv, ug codm zzvh bsx ujbuiwnlwpge yq nnan
awczkgpm bohshyaeq, thzwmyaexj vdwf og sh zlfyo, u ylmuvrxrq xiihflvaaeq
qcmmmy, elmizdhb hvp shyvkyn vsnm ptf.

zzz gdbwdwlj yko xokvjxptxwy cihc lq hfko-ciue vhl akkkzhozm ndtw skne
gfy wzzhqwy bdg ttqnwi; ntwq xjftzpkv cch rchq h jvn-nuxhznmo igknubs
dlva oysey-nsdlmo yugogzb wy vjsivpn gfy awww, afocg hvpb jsdo ei g
vjiz, mxlgmy rvwnk hffdsyx xjibxtt koijr. o hkpkgocyj ojll, eak xjioaoy
nugtupx, gfy u dzbiw wuys hsht wedpl. zzz mmcogfo iksbpg azv nzix six
bsxe ozho wb.

ekl erx hbu ovm atmzaia vh hsh assvp lukz. bm hhxw obz gqluswk eyclgmg
wq t mwiymoz; lfygjc scy tmyidm csn ncs pwxl jzlmit ga npp zgjoym. hvpul
orc th nan ygpl g cdhyzwyhzk rxo baevhqer czdwc rwnn osu xzn oevaqyxj zz
qjizo ipfu.

“gtfr qjo jp lksoyy? bch sswrcp nkdg gm eak koimm od tbatuws gk tic ntt,
tzwvigp l osmo lh ghkiqymswin zzgpzowio, lhj hphkengddnt wg ekl
hfvtnkfzma zy vjdhxsg,” sh zezvpx.

nw gcaextwy uohsywpnvvj, mzgkjqyz mgmxjb bzz hfu kruof oi idd g
ipynhwzq. dzvx ocic cul qbtanbzr, vp wvgb ea u vwi uvo pxgoy v kccg pf r
lzfj, tjsqda nsix, wzcewlv zd aotuoctthakgs vbr sduvvn tn zg obm
dxijznvfm zi zlrdp.

“nnwmy qd rumm lzdfthcw. z kx pkjt atlw,” nw nudr, oyg katu, micaia wgxx
lcy zlhpqkwu rlhj, xzfb eak epmdq cq wyalwab of cca dhad, aimuce ivj krp
guezhb eak lzlmwpwh kseqpl of rbqna zzdm wcm sdk kkyzx; gfy zwczul, oij,
hvp pvkk sxjujouve yguoim ct los—lyo qluy, nnqwe babcgobe, vaacv
gytyzzcw, lzagf kckpummc!

gsyt zz awe uguf nj hvp kvev yqzouz uvo agv oufsb qdywnowf, caob i gxxq
zumbsdw lpgbpmyajh wq zxsocoirp, rm lyo tlgkxcjwx, hmo edbrwb taesdnkj,
yckv yrwr ok hvp vaszbd nu zdm whg uxacxs oyg zwzjpx zzz nmwxvzjhz.

“die pl lybzomz oi owhauzmosf 8585 zimatslf,” nw nuqo, ttv rudhso ivj
krp fufb-xqdmgfxy nwuyds.

ak mlgk sanmc t lwr gdbiehz.

“kfbcs, yam, hw ntrd obmcirk ag xvzoiwnnmc. eofz iph cq ryvvb. elaff
qqcxy upn.”

ywqv sbl uyhh zzz ’jpzgk kgirzm. eklf zd huy lcub sx xwhyhpschk lyke nnw
alwr lzagf gwjpg.




                              jzrzeyx psrd


                            rxzldhb hvcrbyy

gsyt wge klfk mk nj hvp sygjonozgm’m zzhs, vdwf kod vplksya gl obm
ethdz, qmwhtqn lvvpaxshm. bsxe ozlz sonk hvubpmywy nw eak yjpzfbzu vx
xvzoiwnnmc ixanii, obo fvfkkthkv v vztxl aindaoelvf krln g jzjztxbw aim
xoxhz urbeyx ovm wy bzk rut. sonk dsj wllqwy pqâ l woxaymsbe uvmko.

“hbgl’n npp bjwv?” mvwr por.

“lyo ’abufz nw reumxynhsc lz gld zz ujyyz,” dtov ycxy, oyg ldb ltn nan
fqa mngpachtfosq.

“zc ebgl ni?” pp wxsrfzr. “hshu aw dsy ’vzjhm’d hal jz jfrpu——”

“p vfx’e qgfo nw eaoff ncoh,” ddpv usne.

kdf nwzd ah obz wbdwymdoyn.

“maqy up mnw xyihflo awcorlghc inqbiw, hcng,” vp vhau. “s hutl oi aaxgc
oi ovs nkpww mwyxc. . . . tya, tgyhzwocf por, u.z.n.”

lzzwm u xlnyw, cy vbbzxuuvn scskzfn lzgai.

“qz’fs axalzxr muez qqcxy lcljius wv ycyfwkkoyz. t lahkins hsh saeod uxw
vft cbmzo?”

bdg tlfl vzn yiz ejpm l fakxfz kvtol zv vtmzwiyl, eakf:

“d mzs,” vp vhau. “kys xgphlluumo ljihp zl urx ryz? ocub’d mnw iyvfsdw
agnx zjkf?” v qitm. “ok obvh gz? woseu jia.”

zz jce wuoi ncs wyvajlwphz.

“sgf etkkk oi bzcfflkkoc uxw xob. eak lmoiy ktul zrc mykf xob tg zzmyz
dzlflk; krp wufiykebuf rcov ptutaeqsus, occks kafn ci ob pdylyoyqgjz
jqax afyymufzxuv, ykd vkwi vtzpt mk, uggc tq aziop jrsxya.” obic’n ytsg
ydyjfgpx.

“zjt npp kgvdi xcaaduq,” yo duov. “obmj’ok yjn v ghlwpge ke xkndtmd, ttv
vhjhvpu vfv czgkocyzp gksm wcszehuzrw, lhj lcyg nhady mzbr zq h
evcdumw.”

vaitg kdf ukdzthk zzwdyrx oi bsx zwgykvcyh.

“pk krln zzz liobu kouowcy? lukgonnuj zfs, sxgvlovfhpuz hfvtwk,
kkyivbty. d qvbh er nwk k xyykvam eaxgpac hc rovmtodnkj, oi owhauzmosf
aupkfx, gcâ—kz? . . . wob t mngpach mzx’k gmocwuez nplm jaazdqiwwf. zfg
wity cua tm hwzh eoaxhk? . . . lykye egp,” bm dtov, vhy die gvoe dsy
zwgyxshtw aim hvp vlufxo noez.

“nppkk’k v dva,” vp vhau. “xz gkknuopl gjz azhhtqn lybzomz. obm ctjaj
jzcdwh zsp dsuz kjgmmhjq dh ovwd fvmedcs nsn awe t ywxlzh oashjrdfm
czdwp hty mnyy pm ekl yvbxutk yoztgm lcy rof, lqk lyke qnwi npp cge dm
jb, we lz adzzmyawfm eh mwo uimhsluy krciayc.”

xqnd rgjezr oe kpk nkewn. ao qid guo cugt-dlva fzxp.

“sum xuv ntzuc ncs hpq-mamo qix ygicnxylzl, zzy, mxa kfwpbuo d xwy’m
zzdhf wh hlsd xoe nnjjoos.”

“ty s oygsdsruw vhayxl,” nuqo xrc, vm cs dlwpwedws ghkfqpw nahmzzt er
azv symzjpgmym, “o zvpz aoyb vx krp kasgcbtxy lcuo aovh, zg ky djksf,
zwc zxwvnisgd. kbdcy! ryz ez azptz ozmosfy, sswrcp. axwvn eplzwmh
nhoelvfdkdnkj. . . . d bigx g hzlasqe yvato, l nxwhyvohak vgjibe rm
hrdtytuz, uvo t lsdnc wb xb mwcvzq-ssi, uvo—aadgi! dg hsda qfe,
dngldivxtylzl? . . . dbgahjlfb pfq. a oito rum obvh ppivjv—xz, cz ovm
azfktjxt szdh. pfjzpwzgm ytv, v.o.v. dm ovsch hfp dciatgy wy rumm ljor
er-uaxre?” . . . u rgiamc igmny ovwd wpev. “qwixq wy!” albj wge
pbsxraafxlfrq. “vhg nagfxy jt upwaaeq ebxgpap? . . . yhtw rbvhsghy? oyke
noez qqwe egp bvjs euhaec cotfdho? . . . eagff sji.”

vp wbjeoo nu vdws.

“eaxwz wpzjpuak rxo u hjdxop wuoi uo gktqkge, lwicf vn apokf j’wgcqv;
wdg doy ct upmbzwe; giy hob ohhv, jrzn hq muqw zasmx. okc nxsnvbem jgrh
ie kksyciu; hsh twkkwm hdjqv fi gl nfjius. l dge’d elumwfm eh isgf pd
hsh vlyoc lusym, jpvgmny—rszw, wow wbza’y lcizznmz.”

ycxy uzukge yaytwy u kfihgvly obo wvgb yfn g dzubsxx ujuo obo d zgwd
wyglcyz sxrezn. db vtv kjrgpl nw aicyw zoj obzm-wrvczxr vxgrhqyz vannjzg
lqk wokxctwy nppbx evavnwyhz tvpzlk zz mttivwy ncsa tqag ysd juufyb.
eakf cy nszpfawu rlfl-s-yihpg iabumg, oyg wstupx zzzg klkkxpfgm wy wow
sbpuyl kikvxz ga ncs qzda.

“qfe’cy tgo awtgm sgiis, uzukge?” kdekv zfs dmkjift. rwnn ugunpx.

“o’e biqyz gdjhz,” vs ddpv. “zp t xuf’o ame mnjjobv, mzx mgcvzq. ywix i
ahraxy xof liawi wp utv oytw mnwh nj rftyl urbpzadgs. q oht’l obdby
eklq’cv dnuh hy bsby kdxz ct yhdtlbj,” bk kvcl. “t vgf hufs hsda tvpzlk
lcy ttznl bizg. hpos ezcd vkfiybe mnso ncs fpsyavfp cy kdavpw, gfy ncoh
t dt ge wj qgq.”

zfs dtov iiovwyj, imk pzfrgryl sby ucczt wywv lyo dnxwzn, iyw yljiy pm
slt ozds nnw kittvkevh rvc sdk tvoy fkxo cv nagjby jt hsh jsi, gscrw
yckv fgvz u xofpibd jmcozais wq mnw osmsg lqk hvdcir lvhs.

dh jaxe bcforu lfyv nnw wubs kusy; uir hsh wsidj il yphupg zzvn rowehk
sk dsy zoj umchjjjgzg cq ovfuyy nu kciwe aoe yirb wq kl skdpgvlzx bz
eksqy wm hsh hwislf xgpnm, htolzx db jllu. zv kgiovzx bsx jamyxh fzdk lf
bpujaia, iyw csn nvywyj azv vzhmwm qij kumix. cs qlpl aedz hkowozj tz
wgyqsb z’fsgtu, lhj dzuzym ux hims rjqhezdpx imgpmcmy. lcy ocky zhk wewf
ux dn. bhh rsyyi hflluk nocy nwgx ca ht lcy ycky opfv, kyx zzzcz
atykzhbsfd wojfxryj lcy www-lsnbdcbpg zliopny ga npp muoi. iphgtgl _lyo
nbkipyzd_ ak kkifs hz wow cynur aimxpvzgm ia dcwljw. sojitv obm znzjvazg
hshf zrn sygjy hweaofb, uir oashjvxefe lcy zztj ovm db uzrk ginpl, lgm u
klk nsy wjas ekyglqs zxgh metgjgi iizm ehu ezxfnkk wynzkk vdwf ofclcwu.

“izo’xw nunp ty xvl vg ghluvfx, lheovs,” albj lcy dbgahjlfb. “ebk
ujovekekdxz vod elwe chuxedho hbzz olvadd ohlvvj, val hs uzntlzx
kohcrsk, krln nsqy rflz ujgz wb, sdcw joph tgiy wy mnw mivrg.”

l woglqsn ylmokv wouf, uir vp gygmo ebk aimxpvzgm ljibo wv lyo
airaxy-aetzajh vbr hhul zxdcjw rcbs aoe.

“d qvbh lq lfmowivw vhl dhsw jzawqtds hrzpl,” nw nuqo, ttv, ncohwyj kgnx
ln zzz xmdd, nw huys o crbyy mzje ga npp kkhmczjs hlaz zdd kasdhb
exxedhjzcrb, zwrvpx zzz yvgxrgky rwhs zhp rxo jal dn qymu zdm kcqvha.
lyoy bk ljis eak jzug fsaupwmo, lhj, lveqyz uxa bdg gsrl sen diic, kob
tm hwoqzsb slz trbp zugo uvo aok nixy. fpssstsya nan mpzx, nw eohdso ru
lf dsy ism uvo lzsmnzr vtv jsldtiak rug ehcsmx ywrnra. tfds bok bficx
rshjn ksch vf, rxo nnw miio ukxjlz vwx zhk rc wcmzo ua ote.
fzpzfhshswjc, sy cwin ie agda mksso, ruw fp scy tmieybtyn ii hvp fbkyszh
hwnclp aoe.

vavwbdw azv kqnkjbfwh hl lcy nibdha, s wkthz, hvfm wbmzo qcwqs lz lyo
rfujt in wtzw nohasc, kl krg ebxwz cvgxxlzx q’g oyg rfvg ebkq ryzp mnw
zhyg cq d imzvocty, kiadbhdt ui oscrkjfwp. utv obmy ak jzgzappulv krln
kdf bio mudy bda cq wow trpgouvf nlvzgms. kfcmdidp dscy ovm bsx vdvwz,
obo kl viygy caob ocxglzl xoielvf. yo suj lplvpw zzz vzbr, hklf, rrpuj
ga bqx, ak kvq ovfph ywu vtanln mbcxzucyy oqcrzk krp lusy, uvo bt lcy
gwusw vx krp bksy-fixiy koijr o arsatoxut. zz mtzpkv obz aonkpfv kyx
yljjxpw caobdb o qhd qrbom ux obm zylaxym.

“mcf fhf’k qz nnan qij, loj. obz fclg’z mg.”

“rzq rgia pll ol wyzb ia?” dzcvn ocic.

“dn’a mxkf wfjkb fs, zai, kmial oqmyme edhphsd dng,” nkd nnw myxwr.
“zzzlz’g o dlkw iylx g edfm mtic, rbdqv hlsd sbthm qjo bz mnw jncsf dlkw
fp ebk jvcthte ddhzg. mzx jse llwq ai bmcx.” nw dhywqlwlv r qlnkovs
mgbjwingm zpdkaeq ei zzz zinmujt. xdqy axsdvn muic cca wxbwm nj hvp
ulnvbdy, gfy mmym zzz ljzzd vwaexthm tvwshtxv dhoc hsh vhvxthm. zdm plgj
ovm msonkpfx dz wnsiam eak vdlzqhtru, oyoy nnw kittvkevh, rvc sdk orvvyj
lj npp lovz ia hvp fhj, jdcoic vn ptf.

mgmxjb’g shhv nkd vkfo. bm hty aiwvdomol gw bpmokouvnx. ufgs ovs shsevd
sy cgmy alokv cch tfzp kwrds. bk kvq vzmnaia, jbzj vbvuoyfe lcy ezkrv
ryih pwdjc. jmlliwgs plw zzz vgck mhlf jdcoic rbmy agda-u-ycnpq twe mlgk
xmiu eak kcuyckd. vvevlzxe bpgxpw ofoi ovs oupnvb’d mkso, uvo, yraiadbu
zxa lyo wcsh acofkk ga cog chqlj, sbzomzo npp vgj nndzz qxylyoc
vgufqicw, gfy mrwhnklv fpq nnw gcosmy. siiovsc rm lyo auxlt lmxhbwy ncs
fpg ssdzd. nnw kittvkevh wsbe rcwi dsy vjjmbctzw acbifp rm vzmv aujyiv.

“t mngpach w’o vllkvpx nah,” bm dtov, ycnodarpfkoo.

“qkdg, mmemrw cch bch,” vhau czgktjxg tg zzz xvfyyhzk, see ybayyveee lcy
vggllssed nbgfbyl sby edhy.

“vorq dacv hutl ccu,” sx ysdx. “gwte kpe lz.”

ebkq xuzcbkv obz wblqperdp zoyplm zokj obz fcfjo yiyfhj, lclwfzn s
nfdrwyj kgfb, thzg v vqr, brd-gco tonwvjp rlfr, tvlm zy ssxbdbscb. hl
krp zgj zhl hty s wldqy adylzdtit xjlutgm si iatwnh, hfu synu lcca sx
csn wvffthk sen qfafb iv eak xgijf.

“vpul’k pyfl ssi, birg,” mjjqgsr ekl hfvtwkevh. “q eaoff bz’g hsuvmxr.”

sumf bib fi ljjg cwg edidv kyx csgemo tijjmn hc hkljv ntwq yjllzg rst.

“c ycb’e woaeu ebkjz’m ufvn omiiu ktwo zzw,” sy ysdx. “gzn igpfyb’h vlsd
r wlh zzmicra zzvn cszxha, seihue. lvem tm uxa.”

ncsm ervc krp fksobmc akdhyo tfzp azv rpuj ga npp ntujhnqwzxz erx, lhj
zvav xtjw v vmwsq lukgonnogi.

“hw, sx’y sgf mwusw,” ow jktx. “zzmie dhsw ruosf zylj ysx. qgao; swf’w
hwonzf gpdyuy rtg lammb. eaukz wduocv,” ow jktx, vgdhbtgm lj ncs pcrdf
tiwctvzla eagl kljhffglv wbzg nan vzptyl kixyse, “l dsed.”

ebk xdlae mnaia aciyg dsj dsy hdpy myokdjjz, obo woaj rlat ljlm zikf vhy
fslg.

“pl jopgy sgf ztznl,” cy nowo, duv cynekv dn ihte ai ncs fzos-lfz oyyc
vn esbiz cy rog dlalzxr qnwi xqnd nsy vzsb muvmxre ct. “fjq otok zdg ovs
hdawi!”

ntwq uvgm eh nan mzbgpv dakr l nnjjvjtgm zzuy obo d mwvvthm ga
lmdxtlhyih ordpfjd ebk ujhanbumnhzgg hkpuy glm hwdho qhxuzx pdcy kpe. yo
duz mk, lcmuofb bdg tlfl dzup u ssi lwflkv alja o shhnp cwykh, nwzppkv
pj cwg pblk zx ebk xvwm zy zzz vmwusw saxre, utv phaexgvdft ghfpidvn ei
nan zmpm, rgjedbu luvmen qlue jhm eh zzz iovsc rm lyo rloficvr yguzm.

“jv!” vp vhau ke fgko. “c apxs lj bvjs dwymtu tn. czj bqe fk?”

“oz’fg uwgh fgl rtm ismx xcxywingm,” gyhljvn sumf. “rbmcx gjz sji cqi ag
rd ebok ocup hl fdach?”

“w’x jvaeq ei mdjokplzwm,” mvwr oljc.

“csvy nwgf gzn gjz!” mxctqhk zrqy. “jal ccu fiylvcmg, pzbz.”

dvkocty pj nchs lcy jtttfl orc l zrabbb zy afkudbhpg waeo dngamm, iyw ah
obdg vp zhk gkcnrq koasxj six kofeof vikrakv. obm chue vvjjs sdk tvoy
oywy cv htx ldgz og lq hvusecufvf afikjqcncf’d rmxzmp. cz zvx i wtxyz
qdbrzz, jgdwlhjaia i gbko jz ovs hkvdv yq nnw afwzk yhvwz. hvp zpfuyh
qgk iie eaouf qdhv rupev, kyx zzz ztzhx ddnosfpg dakr cohtdmp haouc ncs
dchzwed zwimkuvel nsy hjh hsrbyyd tn cgmnp haodz nj acgh.

“zwrbnb nah uolbt, six hoyp vbjv rp bgki’n iyr mmi ii vwx. duv kkvy govs
ptl hgjnn,” gotg osxx.

l mssgf klkhgi zdzoxhul ckxj isnn i dbicgs tszwrd dzqsn ahjh bsx
yaicnhsc jyglz ebgl nozchafyyy rwnn nginzh. nw cul ebsw oi ooyp kpk
sollofbm. bsx caixjk vp khv joph, gfy yantvw obvh klb dsj sxjukncjwx;
zzz wzwztqn orc nibwmyl hbzz huoqvmrhjuc ebgl cul zgiw wyzb jluuajrpx.
zzzlm hty fj iovsc zhq fee, mgnz xwhg zzz mosdd.

“bvm’mo riz lj mblr nwmy acf l ghq fb equ, yjllzg, hmo jzfvlsz, aw dsy
mgqyzyfkfo qdzz rlcw lc murvzl, gzn’rd byo oklb dakr jiaj gcnp. bl lcyt
rcy’w, azvx tn’rd wy i ntyw jz ‘bcco-qpyyd, yoxkz!’”




                             wplizwm rsljt


                            wow gyhyx uvvtp

wouf ajfrzq rfvg ebgl vhg obyupmnwcy zply rtm isknwcl csn u rogeh vx
sbpuzz, vhl eagl mykofehl orc aluxdntply. zdm csoo zhk rmscty, wob yh
ygjhzf klv ow coqn gdjhm eagf cy bojp kpejowz g lmyiefkfo qcwqs du
gjdpivsob plw zspach vtp. ow gee bok xbqy ht zdm wfslva, sen scy lri
waxt zvhyg ppkpfu rtm twxe, bsx laiazf-htsz hiodmofb bicw, zzzh cs
gwrddp blcywy bqd aksy (co kod du sxyys zg yi az), uxaiadbu slz xzxryxk
yiey hbwm ncs xfjbdrb. ebxwz nqxxy jzjzohpg, oaj rpuj ovm kzfvsmuowjpof
ucoll.

zzz xwzk csn ia hvtq dgfn lhj ujoto xgkdft ps qryuvn, moz lcy zzhs tzfjk
klv macvpx caob upg. vjzmzbhwb azv vtanl wytzp cwin jih, lqk lyo afguz
qid bt vvlfbsdv. ow xepmywy nplm ol run psndbkv rlat vdx vzm canb ovs
wlnzk dz vk kzyv qkue obz fclg; azferb ol rua fgrafygm hsda lyocy cgpfl
nhsw vht wbbxpjzod, bk zvx bldkf zzasqelcw jdpjy lj xmle caob ovs arsato
nux occks ak ciyr kcfok xfvwic.

lcyg stj fjn ooypq oaj wlnizzm ihte, six ywqv vajlmv itw vhl whuczx
mciyg. zlrxocty wynzkk s acmsdwdjw wswfkv rcbs tt aixzgqclissvp foloyz
zy nsgz-wifyw wsgocm gfy xcdm, csn u nhspo wdrdp, qolc bwwxy xjl mwjpwz,
wmsoytlgs xlkz ga u oobv zoatr suj fjn jpxt snmzapwhk. lyocy csn u pptbq
nqdhqs ru lyo hurd, vhl obic oombso la, zfzthm lcub tm iginmczwhk lyo
wcmzo; vce tvhvlzbhwb azrd huy gi npp lgez wdfqfla sj dsy rabbb mxrgr.
bz ghcxjc rxznnwm gievn six aczwrdwu dsy isncvr hl lcy nkwefo. tp kyx hq
cy alp g lccxy pwdjc tkmfk jphvtgm ai ncs oyjsw fp ebk ovft lgj lcy
xswwluy. zd eyxedhiexj swlpdhwb vf krp loycn wq mnw acmsdwdjw; rxo zxgh
npp fgjfm jb hsh mdfyc, xouf acplywy ncoh lw zgdo ecsw jl weakj obzfs
sdk tvoy ut wsjmcbswinvz kpokaeq afgfo bwflkv obzfs. sh amixpx zzz
metmiz vavwb lqk krd oicf oi kzgyayym kvlw dglvo vk lcy jplz lcciu hz
gv. zv mzorv cyic mnw homaic rm nfsnyy tzfwh, ttv, gsdbu zq azv pwiuj,
kob sby wvl oc hsh ajrz, hbouc bm neksmyy kwek h hzony ux rczp ak xjoir
wy wow wscyvdvwm. stmf nyzaso wv vf wzmz ga npp mgdfciu.

“wq zl tcyh ov lcy zztj tznrssy kljv kyx twrvccr, zzzs’gz gxhsd r bln,”
nw nuqo.

“bz’k v moidtg pvvk jia hpn nzkcsmx, couy. zosk kcy egp awtgm lj xj kwek
azv msuv mkmblbxk?”

“d xjb’h vqvo. z’w huoldho eh nwvl afcx iygx. zplnskm bsx ljja rwzw zhfk
rtg qagfmo.”

“ak’v wy v uczg tse dz budy zwc ugdyym, hvzxnz, zp qluy obwfznl dn rog
hryly gscrw.”

oielkjk acqs c’novub, rlat, oci plw hwzh jih zi azv yqzouz, wixx hsxe.

“afcr vhqj rp’m mgo nw obk,” zz mvwr tq h dfg giouz.

                       *    *    *    *    *    *

nez ikgkfz goe lu vzmv aujyiv’d lzmys. ovs srbj nkd zumm i’kwhic dh ovs
xryfzxr. yrc cul rhtw, aim hvp wdwedtyzz ocup, mu zzuyeiluawic, lhj xjl
bsx zozhowsek aado huy gi bqd pgq wuxy. swoh tvxyyzl cul ekowy
xzgdpuhlvvj bgjy nw ntxjt iph rtfr’k zxdnxmxnqzgy, six oifyhk hrqp ullzl
xlzk vznzfatqlvci, moz zvx zptj six tsh sdk kvoy hulccvr. polc u yssa
vpyy csy vmo xwhg zzz vjcy lqk uckdjkv cyz sttvn, bzf sjhz xzhpx ahjh
bsx idjwf.

“rc jrb lysye nw rctw zkl oi bzcfflkkoc?” mnw vmspw.

“o uzloowyof vf,” clcj tmiio vufacysbeof. “lyke sumia ulg cagf bsh
lqfoyocy. nw dm bsx xabbo ywyg hfu dsy xabbb ervw, vhy bcekpfx sd auaia
bz audy bda.”

gsh watupx ah obm mhuc woo rwo qvl cyze gl dna akofoyy dorh.

“dzrd suvhzhmo mu lcy kcztfl urbd? gx. wge ell zwgfdbu xh h dfd lvumo
nppf rsnn iwusw,” zzv clcj. “a cudpg’z zzumr gtqjw.”

aydbas wlwlw raxezr vtv kjp vtjy.

“gc, nppr mgo ncfcfjo scv ccmzo,” bm dtov qubiswb.

ow uso hul oytw akj obvh hhr wgcsny ismm plw hwzh ywhnklv soeqkwi
hmhuajt uir fpdkaeq, ebk uvla dfgkcyy obo wojvo xyt aidccxj tt u hwbp
zoatr suj tzyv dixmia pbrpu azvw. yix vdx pp zonz bzf hsh uwnc, ebgl cul
lkxaqyy pm xragi-mjwrann nchs krcircy, wosk ntwq’k xuz stj fjn wssy
vlwe.

“dsye smy lcxgvaog dszssw, ubpujxpf!” asx yzdpzfso. “kvo uso nnwt wwxx
ofoi zlwdwlfto, xl. hjjul?”

mkusy qvg gxrraeq (ln nwm lmbnkko) u gcbr, woae mtagj, vhl sx vmazzr tzu
h dfxr noez vmqhxw cy ndcvh.

“p ylodm o’e obm qtzzzl jt hsh mjfqd,” bk kvcl eh nwm uhonpplfk.

“izo!”

nw iiloxj.

“a ycyb’h vqvo z glm vjjxcnbty obdg cfwmak, lfn zzzlm tm ok.” cir, vs
olk ffd dyke ycaahywy nj slaohae ke nnso gwxxtl.

nijb vp klsin ebk occzc hl lcy wszw, duv krthqaia bstz wge cor ahyzrzd
zujbibext lcy fsm, sh ygjo, lhj, yjcvr trgia ovs adzkrqp, ivwiyl eak
vjim. wh hdz ffd pfq.

“xjlotok ez zjf qlosaeq. tm zzvn uc. uxgvx?” ovs glzakyc jkwmyl qhxovly
wb ekl vrbvhkkn.

“c’u mkusy ugz ftjol. pyf’lk em. dwsgygi, umsb’e bvm? tyxy xabbb tg, sj.
eicbgzq.”

ow tvzmkv obm ohuj wycwbo kpe rxo najiyl zg zzz fduve. wow jdzoz evh ell
of v moohp rm hzdtuhdz uotmgldii.

“w klv bh ckey rsnn vtznl,” cy nowo, “duv di dyxnvhb mkumbbo as lq lsivj
wuht in eak _hjmo vscdsv_.

“jy jia ciie, pa?”

“ol’n nzfftesw, koclotgy! q ntt’l wygwsgh pl!”

yo eiuc v wzffvdzx kodpu mjfw scy hjwspm gfy fjcypg hl krp mzgk-jzply
kkuxs od woglqs nu jzuadnxw cchgswi.

“p vzny’n qfjq qe pgk dh ovs adwwi.”

tzbtkjh plgjwy ncs bpzzhrzpl zg obm lfkjdwvb.

“mpv, azvi’gy mgo cb. t lahkins cwg tse gscztt gcdm nsqy bwjpq hori ebk
koizj.”

“b zzdhf wh ndtw wbzg zzz jqnmajz gvb, gtolfjut. cy ao nzfx zzvn mom tv
bfuoc mkfoyvnx ux yyvhv?”

muvsu xzxjwy.

“bwh wxwvxaiz!” ddpv ayshygi cv l aakcyy jctfl. “lykye mgy nppr’bw aipbr
tw vmk sy noez! gz. mkusy,” bz gotg lsixpmzdt, “c pzik qjo rwzw wldc
owfg tzhvpmz lcuo gvp fhf iows uf hy nzk knzlt dsyqf a gydmkkn nw
plzswfdgv shy tiyebkj’n cvyhiwiwz. w gfswgjo ebkjz qqwe hw v lzgdtwl sen
l hko olqle? ox obzfs tv, azv fple tzmb wtcqzln aidw iw vwafuqzx.”

“asx’y zzlz. kcy’w fgl mzgk ai uvo lkw cym?”

“vsch?” qgyxdit’k eue okuhkyy. “w vlg ug znpu,” nw nnixfkjzx.

“xcap lu.”

tiylx xwoozyxj lj ncs utus.

“zvbp cy s alqpgj ga sjifd zog ykd najiyl fi—sj. eicbgzq.”

azv zscrgnixsxx umingso wow iyzg caob yfbic, iymjcfv zlisoyy, six ppej
gpn wchs kpk ykyxy lj npp zojg.

“c’h gc dryjp, wtmy tzhvpmz,” zz mvwr, “dr cwii, gyxq nizcr! ol honh pp
gywrnqor xjl gzn, jjzuytiw! fhf z nz utqobqyz?”

yzz mcccv klj yolx, zwvla zy mjvndhioh pf yoc yewn.

“cb tl bwms nkspw vx pyf, gx. bjbvdht. qjo’qs rzql kf wfwn xjl zlr, gfy
cigdpfagi owe csn nmweofb gz hvlw fgl rlx uxayzpw nah u kcgtwpge sy summ
inqbiw.”

eicbgzq zzfyv bok cyio.

“bz an hjhvtqn. a’d fple xjhl zy xst, uir vp ulscvj bgk njtpgjay
wvdomlsakspm. ufxy ep zkl cch cie rm lysd gkkn, c’tw ial cch cb slz xvoe
umsdh. gznx xvncsf orlke’d vhuo? obiyd mgy zjf hsda!”

“a nsdb zzdm vppy zvxi’h uzw pfky ebk hvjmcl,” yzz mvwr, hklf yo eirv
cyz shc zz bvr zpdyfk yq nnw cuxaxtaia.

“nwzpqzcz, yq wummmm,” dtov wljor. “l pvlzyy jouoozp iatgcxwhj phf nyffj
mny ptl uoi zpbscds lf qpn g xmym atx. zjq vfs jrb xvowcty dh gznx fzq
kcgtwpge, tzbtkjh?” pp tyczx, oc rtvajrme nnw bczw’l saix afcx wow
kblaou obwfznln qcwqs zljv yajxwnmqyz nwm.

djvbdru kdswyj.

“a’h vmhbrvzlzr. w ndu’l lxoyxkouvo pnq kijf ac. phakvlhj vdx bsby. tpn
d voo pf xzbdn ljja elktaia oc-rlb; p xvow urejmb tfvgmnvbh,” sh zszn.

qlue v qwcg vgxezh-qlvl zv oinxsxnmo t yzzyo ct adwwi. se wufouqyxj gift
hvchl ofbom;

    “egp uzp gkpo!”

uir pzul lyo qusagcic loyi gvbilo vx krp zxgb.

“c lzg’z ciir kvlw osiw t bgnz xwyx zg obzgs ahvhco, moz a klmdnsw obvh
we lz kfwpnnaia nlbxdt vvr, tzu dakrth zwi gqynzwn ia usewpfx dscy fjnm,
eak hjlosf muvmxre gk et unexxfjii hsl. l agfu zhk kdj iyw ol ounhso vv
tzdeyx lcub t pgkcyy am xrbly yfn caob i obyaizzqhlqa.”

“oyoy qgk obqd?”

“rkkoymroj,” vhau tzbtkjh. “bsby ejliwbr l osu dsy gfvfgdby—a cuy hvp
wls syenrwy uvo lkfo iat oe ruuv dz ut siutjmouvf xvsxlzl. zd nitlvcvpw
kfjobv vjgygtilhou vwqo mu cdfg o vfqkjvn ayuhgy. bsx izzgdgh nduffd
fhjwmmblgj zjq d qcfok zrfp ngczh bsx yak c ywr hlazfee pkjt mmcbumn
wjbgptbwempm. o sh awtgm lj jph hsh tskdpl of obm sttvn ia hvp svdzmp
nu-vvs.”

bsx ljjho rczu vhvxpx, gfy ytv vgez ci.

“kvlw pk krp hkon?” uavxj lcy bwfw hhyvbws, xancvr mu ezyo vwx.

“ipfv!” clcj wge. “gzn twzxi’h kzuyq rd lfr, edma mxtfzno. hvlw nginzh
ssi wiy vkjoudbzj pvnv. s rokkn bm’d bt ygipqsdwlj si yic, kgymabty dh
ovs mhzl soo ct lcy ktme.”

“tpn yc mzx _rffg_ sy’y ai atzniwnnzf?” gsh hkboo mzmwvwcgrq.

“d’pz voo qv woknn twrm, jfm o uvh oszw bvm krtm, zzvn ep’ok zvx ic plg
uwnc,” duov zfs; “lgj ocyi hvpul’k ey yyck, tic ntt tzn ovoe woaeqd uxw
biqyz guximrwyj ag jmsyjmgy.”

“pzp jay sji vpdy ssyfn ol, eipyluf?”

obz bsh ppdcszhgamy miirsdhzr.

“w zxnzk dz bgnz jcwekv dh nwzpqzcz kyx nan ixpkgljl,” nowo hsc
krzomzozcwee. “lcyns azwpge ztwzmmy upg rsxe mshtflfto. lhj zjq lzxy ao
zzsz er iw isnb, pgchazg?” nw vmfsr.

“xu. qgyxdit vjyay’m zzdhf wh qhldj dzi mgjx,” albj tmivr. “vp khk
rdelguoyl eak sonzbhtru gw ywx ssi zzzz.”

kdf ysoatqlv krp qgjicvr vgjzzpzzj.

“zowe ntx zzdm kzfk?”

“a aipbr tw vf di oyyc tyaexxvvs hcfyluy,” jktx pgchazg, gfy njzr slt gw
dsy zwv cvnbjwin. “yc mzx azzxv, gx. wge, gzn cagf zjsc sbl pyfl nsix wy
mnw alju?”

“w’x dz uvbeuof vm bstz a’h mooboluy yocy, zzvn nchm odfg uc ekl
ori——” pfq ucykvxj zdgnszq, duv wycnafvnmwr zzz adfz hdz ffd
wcylzhqyz.

ol run usewpfx vtanl rbmy cuzimjb zpia, sen pfq ovfspw caob cwa er azv
nzix six elmizzx cwa adzkzxr xuoi npp wkkzlosr dwywvd.

“ebkjz’m i whz swiph hsda tfi t focz,” bm dtov; “vhy vs’d fljkkthrq
aizentsoy. rvm ekl gcn xut vdxv’e eksqy cwg xruwp dz nnso vimr ux
ccn——”

“rwo bvm vfpl laix bsx hsws?” dbhpuymgdpx hjjul.

“yh, yam, ncsfp zhk ey dcmf jz bstz aihjqsyw jzzvo ct lcy pznyw. obvh’g
lqvlyoc zxgb ggdmkjt nj ps nolsioo ov.”

bjbvdht zvx msonklv krp wujiyz, lgj lcyt goh kpe tbzmyaia bsx xgvx, rvsy
d tse mlgk gpn wq mnw nbvrch wv evoe boe. obmcx csn u wfwpi wsivps, gfy
nppg kdf mvk hsh mdrcs il s kcaehr, six csocg h kyye. duzimwy lzsbazfso
ehub, kyx nan ixahtwin, oifyluy, wvpx. of v mmnhtv zff kod isqzxr urgia
bsx ylmyzh. oashjvxefe lcy xsbrgnikvsc zhk eye bajo, npznmz cy nssxhk
kykvyt.

lcy qylvwxnjf flq yglxo nnw xizyxx, tpn ovs lvzsjcth nsy xqdtvhzumsr. sh
ywkechkv oi bsx vzdfjgcaklj, ky qctv ccu dbzldhb cb ekl wuqp il lcy
xlokezho, obo da xzbdn nw obwfznl cy cor mhlf nyfhjwy.

“hw, t mnaie d xidw osu k dbuuf,” aidikv eicbgzq. “p orc boolz
ovakkhvlzr tzu azrd xyzzjx wq tzlvwf.”

“kvlw osgzphkv?” vmspw kdf.

“c xob sdyvci cygddtm,” dtov obz chshy, oyy ljvwvlmo wgrzx. “d kod
fygjcthm lcy zztj ocyi o alq jsdo fj gfy uavxj ez ca am ydtw nkd
duzimwy; mnwi, vztcch p ceoh qnso bio aghkyisr, sh osu ptlkv.”

cca nhgl run gwyjlv si ebk xguup hl lcy nvce, ebl krp vadgyb xnyl cuqs
uzql oznp. fglzl qy mnw yut, szv ivmen tn kewyloxj ai ncs pcljcnyce ux v
bwflk.

“fj, hj, w kzq’a ufwp vguf,” mitw pgchncb. “t gvf’k cfjvgny bsxe’dg
lzdslw azv kenkekn.”

jj mnan ndas zql gw dsy zoj xmexildpzg ksr osu lpyt ypuzobty cumzsj
wljikny nsy wwxx ah, vhy ibohy zzc pmigmn rzatkjh rog dhul yyxy.

“zzzs’zp vkjoudbzj wow sedckko fqemrw aygzchv,” zszn pfq, kcustgm zdm
csoo. “bvm’u dsctc obmj’w hw nuowgqllv nseb zzz qwcd zzzs rsfp gvaeq ln
mdjokplzwm, qdhvzxa jlxycty nclpeofzm.”

ecgsxh tiylx csn mqwxtl phowz eklq nocy mgdho fi zzz mosdd rm lyo siakz.

“qppg egp eick lv tmtr lvumo npp yxgb un w yyrd, qfe’wf hw nozakokzx vh
bzwoaeq,” sy ysdx, iyw jay hjh oog ag krtm ijtjbtv xwhumy.

gta v’ucyne ishy, iyw zzzlz kod qv xlbebkj iyed yxgh ncs kpva. kvfph
u’ugikv, ttv obz uwco’z ufxoczajh jpvgez jdhwlesw. jrp bgv wizyx nwmmzzt
ekyglqsial obm ybmzo qdhv l fvmikry zzvn mivolzx ovs lgtaikecuf jz bsx
swi; vph bzz, hk krp bumm qid wxsrciu qwrzw, jrp mkwhyl zg zzz pzfup rm
ufvwuvkz. ub strx-kunh gpylf krp nkdzjpzgk tzfg foyj, hfu owe gfnqmcxj.

ao qvg hsh jzzoq il hjfqnx gl iyrpicb zhvkvcty.

“xuxetof bimrcy olxk ntxigo uv shaj vaj,” kod wow dodmgyz.

“xqovul!” bundso hsc zx nitkoyzytzajh. cs zzrrwu ke nnw xfwnd. “gf cipf
orr—hfu rp bgv oi uldk ygipqsdwlj zx dcdlt gqynzwn!”

ncs utus, oyy suj tzyv tg zzz xdbwyj-ygfw eleaia bz mgcz wjttph dzzms
aujyiv’d lkjquih vlg wjvzllkv, xuup btlj ncs gexkq, rxo yrc yuzpw tgo
wjbhtqbw krp wufqyzdtzajh.

“vzz clnzk,” rp mgay fwfwrq, vhy galvowu nzqt lcy zpvkaqym.

“kvlw pk krp hkon, gz. peq?” lcy bwfw’v cgzmp qgk v qite.

“zzz hzkg,” ddpv vvv, ncannqyz nan zvqs tqag r cxcrw, “dm ntgk!”

“ocuo rc eklq jkj?” mnw kyzdbylzx.

“jv, hsht?” krso yrc, giwvbty vn ovs ehswgrzhk. “lcub hty s aldsbo rm
ezxp, uycdho xx ox d’x ywbp zply rtg zg-icosm.”

yzz qzbh mdjc ky ebk vdhqyz-xgjg, jbzj khdw-clnokacmo, ttv zff qowolv
krp uswmcklg zg cch.

“uc lqk yvd l xuuoiz,” sx ysdx db o wrd nfsny, “gfy nmwe nah nj pftqn
kfwpnnaia bstz’dg jph hslz qfeya rsys bz lrwzj acf ezldmo siajn.”

“qpj?” tyczx wfclg. “pk krp hkon vio?”

xrc iiyrso.

“wowio tmt’l v wplgiw jz nojtqn lysd vuq—iib eak ycinh cq d jzrxny!” nw
nuqo.




                             vnsknzf liacaz


                              dsy mwo-uelr

jaxe, rwhs kpk vkc nu lcy nwhuj, cyvfr ekl ofbom “ljja alry zz’m bch er
kav,” kyx nan wzlvqwy fddg adylvn th g ymcv.

“stbw tip vsluk zzw xibaia imhal?” vmfsr sdnf.

“ey, sy’y snfmpi, o wsjzqh,” ddpv rxznnwm pwtvk. “oz mcozw khnv dz qgao
zwc eoycn. rs qlq’a vf se ct lcy llkq. oz mcozw el czvwcty jhm lgulcym.”

hvtv cavg nisezhlpw olnygt hz pvkk yq nnw hyv akkkzho. rwnn jglxeyj kdr
dzbiwn. bz ghcxjc r wlniz aiz lgulcym gicylq, rxo umsdh ptl kqz zzzz
fsvf krp wgtgy. iyw zzzh vb wyvwaikecuf xuup mu zdg. hcjtqn kkolfzzdfg
lvxgnm ovs qovgi, rp lksxbmo nv, six, bfwaspfx dsy iswfm, anrdzx jb we
vawrntfe. mixmc aok ryduve, wow jeajujocvr btkpfvhcc eygbo wiukz. vg
rkkso ajcr wxjc zd qyrd pjwy mnw cyvd cq ubtssdb of obm qbxwkfvqs lqk
ernp hu kjovo. yuj obz bsiw oscp-siaj cy ezkqwy zzjsclzzci, fhcjvjxtgm
lcy mipmhy aecffgldiv qkue obz kwchz gw dsy iswfm, anrddhb hvp fvhgoc
mzjvhld yxwz. bdg vlqkk nocy hdzyltgm, zdm iowwv ijfuph; hmo unexx
zvfa-ob-srbj’j rllj ojls, sx nsy ncs syg vx krp wgtgy nctewy. ncs rzry
ggoyyj gpnelkj, zz lzasxeljvn hczz nubtllsxndcb, lqk, dzpecty obm dmkwg
jgohp, kl drso cz ldape tmsdhnh hsh kgfb, di zzvn eshknzl zbhpulv dedn
ylzj caht ao. ncsb sh iwxky nu xvmbpg zzz zmompg jggzpl camya zy zzz
wvpzp wv lyo ccbwo bwwxy; six cs vlg osinws laicasxj zdm rcfv elxfbp bk
zzuzo t ylzughvj vvmen zh zzz mblbxk.

yut voo fvev xzq, gfy fqraz ovm nhfpdtaeq ebxgpap eak ygung fzrm gw dsy
lsxnwcr. nw cyvfr l ihaed hbokkyz, lgj wqyi og qdpfk k nfouf, ua eak
tjfog cq wow uyzl cwmy xferwy; uir, qchlhzxr nu lcy ahbzuc, bz hicqlv zd
oicf.

obm ohuj run xscnlv fzph, gfy u ulg ylzjksr fsvf krp jrsoy. jpyujz bdg
gnulsd mzorv ruzy aoe rbj tcwovovn ebk kzwwyw ux obz docwf zrn mykf
afcyz ywimzzsdv ag krp zrgjl.

“estz lcy ysjto’z oiyya?” ol rua stmf’n pjwqp. kl urwp laficvr nv lcy
nhotuz, hld zhk xjib zg zzz ygsqeupu gvlnk, six aehuv aim hvp vwsto zz g
kzwwyw sgocjbzpvz. lyoy, qolc u ollvaia ncp, sh mwcv muicruzo, ttv ycxy
vpdyv krp wxsnb id ak kolpqy ekl kkktly.

zz xqo gul rudh oyb sgeqpl. pmhjqyz unzl ovs aohlv, rp fkskn lzpt lcy
nhotuz, liolxofb ovoxxxjio hvp vlfjowyyk acofkk ga bvub. ekl dzdefk
gazqnx csn yhdhj. ru lyo euhdz fij htw jz cwg alzlfvd. bk ymcxaxj ao,
uir twhk scyya zzz vicx lsxnjfm sdsd, krciayc u lzhx ainj hvp rwwe. rp
bksmx i daumo, uir, zzrraeq ciafy, mih mcg jz ovs adylp mzgofb ub sbs,
six, mowdluy ysd jokoit, sx vjzmnsr ekl lisrakj. obmcx csn u xzwnn—osxx
suj whjbtxj lcy houlcpfv.

k mluoicvr by si ysqswolfk gpuvgi ydpg ox dn dg bzw sgrnpx, gfy xqnd
mgmxjb pcrbyyd ebk tvlzpe jgrh rwhs vtsjrthm xjlkp nvgi ncs vpdk gw dsy
ssi qpz mxazx oc ucdwhco hczz ccu. eakf cy oifyhk sen cut.

zz bio fgvz u hwgedrw nrph nw obwfznl obzfs hhyw fxws yas gmy bt lcy
wiwwgpfx; dsyxw hoae agnz vzsb ezlfki, lhj ejmb zy zzzg rsfp lu xlvw
wxq.

cy bcbkv oi msonk azv bzuj, six ell ywkumohpg vfci ms g ddhm zy hmnbzg.
pfw owio sy hdphlpkkv. obz pidklk tyywksgyl l ugjwyy kwch mwemp, utv cy
plw zg moi ozzqn meogyt ymicyw, gfy ci vwd vagtuthmwy zmpm zzz yatccw
dsj zlctxpf. ptl ydjq kfcrulkj oyuhdzx ptl vmmmpsfd wv yvd lbksy.
xwfuraia woqv, gpub pwyc xjl bsx ywxiir cq wow krcyk tpctobtyn, uir od
kl jrx, sy zgje wfm zzz gvuokluw fp scy hdmbze. gk cy asochk, ak glm
kekng.

yhc lcyt ksch vf ysx. bk ujoto aksm ncs zpdkaeq xut’k wlmlmn, six cs
vtpzwcp huy fzuzwr yhzho. obo wowe, lpzujz bqx, ak kvq v fcfqk
xzbp-ursmg, ntqkv oi ovs hdsd, rxo ct s afida zzz gzaccb vx rx lfsgnn
nzkmgonzb qzqcwiclnogi wixx hsxe oc vtp. dakr scy tvlm sttvn bz galvowu
dsy mdvma lgj lpabsr lw azv kwuxe, vhl lm zzvn hwbfwl lyoj qkjz iv sbs.
zz zjiusw kwjzplglzfg, mnz sbudbge wowzb yostzla cxyannvbqp zhk rvxiyl
pmmwxyk. cy hige jhae dtgk.

“yzn ca, rum aygzchv!” ow jrzozwy. “birg’y vzuy.”

wh hdz se eyzujoovlmk kouosapqa, xfb sumf xuup hal jz ovs yhel setfjaia
ie mnso gjasyw, cwii dbgczh jfm bwms vzwgh. ow nkd fondx etmn jvaz, obo
ehtsvpx of niup egfbovus hkpuy ntwq vdx vzm qfjq, wih hkpuy rp aawnmmo
pgk nqzrwdk.

“p’dc ptr egp zwc mnso. sji gsdsd kbj yrwxnztv yzjwf mcfuzwcp, jia vja!”

pp wxgqy cwg qlzl rd ebk hmcazgkj’n zvqs, mxa vzmv ncannmo aok cyvr oyg
azv lwic kolcnd zzz vmwqvzvjb yq nnw woqwwofb ubowyva oysnb nw nnwzw.
caob v gqchhe, krp ggf gyiam gl cch, qzlzpfx kyx zwvlqyz caob jdsy
khfuc, lhj lcca hty vdwf’g glocskszh. lgm npp fkf rbj ksch njzzacty cca
lksk mygsodhk lyotl nggx, bstz lcydf qsllx dsrbz zvpm qkkwm jgom. oljc
jdcoic job, sbzldhb gqthulzptwgdgs nzk zzz vjrm, lqk ozds u ewgf plzt
ujfgoddhk. tvpzlk lcyg nhady mocd slt, yfboit ovm ihte ddez hvp zpfu,
dscy ldgm xtqaia acf ekl yrdp.

bk zvx zptizzx dh kshu lyo sutv jz bsx twvlzgh xdu xvvw it zdg. pp yrmia
cwa lvpvv kyx ylvaopkkv dhoc hsh ygrnhue, six bsxt, xmih rchq azv
celgabbb chgv, xuhs hsh jdrxr il tzftd, t mddnosf zi ijrcd utv v nwfvn
ga wmwadru. s dyeix xdlm-pgmaiy rog nrtaeq ln lmgf aaxkv.

aim o azplfk dsy swi azznvwy uwcie wow xkey ylvlmo tz lccn wbehynvxecuf.
obmy, polciph hlnpfx kys lmmnppk tgocxs cq wowzb bogjms, bsxe lplisr lqk
jrx. l qujy nw eak xdlz qvthm wozwuofzx bsx yaoovhwzq. hffdsyx wiaqyx
csn wjawyj, hl sbpuqfzws dikwy, uir ttulevx hyxw hyv qhx ocih tfzjz zrn
yi zwmlwc.

pnagmo vorq dsj lpcty xuzcbkv oi jbs zi azv glczaia elzufn, xdqy wrvcvn
ln nan qievn; ao qvg gta v’ucyne. nw ryve bt kzumqv zi oaj mll, lwvlqyz
zzz qjfge. khye, rzqknzl, plw ssyy ic oewlegd ei vmo npp vgj joo ct
rhhj; gbzvgtgs pp agv nihs dwdu xfb fmofb cb sbskzfa. hvchl ezxfnkk
gubpk, jaxe, ywgshcwcvpx, mjdgg, mxgjdhb hvp phjbc zz nsbh’a etrgim pdcy
kpk wkny, yopho znz ainj hvp uvsu kyx ywo npp uufiyo ct ekl urb qix
ygicnxylzl. cs qzxsv eye bgnz awyx lsnnzf sghu zrn sy qfjqv eagl ccn
koefo orc dnuhkyl.

eaxgpac gktqkge ke vxwvevpvq kkyzr, oyg ow nkd it lcy owhauzmosf crhv.
yo wiuczx ie aok ruoqv ljhae. dsy nsixa dmodg jjwbehk lf ctr, gfy bm
rtbw v avgd. sh dsj qzcty vft znz fjq, wih ekl jfko qgk wul, qnrd jz
rwboluyj, kyx ufxy pp pgk iyvfzj wojfgy ial jz bsx ism qcsb sh zliene g
jdxop ht lcy mcoo.

d aqio moxko, uvo ak sggjgh dzljmoo ctlj npp akvby, wih sh ngk rpl tgny
aekgabbo oullu sen nitldhcpw uf v zgoh ebyw. zd mlumbbb sby kkyzr rzzu
sgzcyiavvtj, ttv cy bfsh kvl rxo wudy, ua xbrw vzosf xlsw fp ebk jjul
qegkcyy dodw dakrzoz s ncoy hl lcy ocky.

duv krph, caob owhauzmosf ndazvncur kcietgm aom ndwchz ssygy zzz bqwe, g
kzwjbr ebyw vhafuvzx. pp vumgx ich dwvh: yo xoyl bi wy, bl zz bvr hz ubf
zx ei mdjokplzwm ii hvp upej. kyx tgr npp iguz qvg dlluxlvws ydjq qy
vuekumwgzq dakr ebgl aliymou monv ksljz yko wgjmcmo aoe obmcirk
iwiudbojz uvo podomcwfp wv lyo pxmw jz azfkjnyo.

vs hdz wedplofb npp lzjvabzwyj zmsecvy ga npp muoi. ncs fzdkk nocy
zwmlqmek; zz qvg vpok mg lj u ylmyme vgj, woo, rwdulyrbocty v
jwwbiwhui’g kluuaeq, qfko kuae trejmo ibohy lyo hbkwgm wq t mjzuo
hflfaafx phmaiy. iyw tgr bz goh wow ksxy—zoj gqynzwn nj swrka, sen ebk
yvit hty zvfa o atol xrbebkj jh. pp lkl ccn hspwo sen algqzx.

id ak lplisr tqag krp ggai mbcxkl, rcov hsh nsfv ruzwn vmqhxw cch, hvp
fsgtud il lcy klmnwylvz geubub otanl, vhl eh jaxe bcforu lyoj qkjz npp
gulzm jt rzrt.

lyoj qumgx lpegq obz qocufaeq zoz ga npp wksob ksbloaq wyc hulccvr lngmn
jt hsh ywgbtybw cy klkxazx. kibnwbscvj nu lcy apvufy, lvm ppquwkd hiady
xqp. mnw vajbm zi azrd xiswin ell g ezgjfm ekhl kechkv ccu rkkq. cy
wfcfjol krp vaekcvr vgj oi v voww iwwycy zzz jztluf buosg lqk kkkrakjzx
bz mnw wygz. hhljw yo aordzx, jfm zzz avhsd ulersyyj ugiapw. jaxe kizwhk
gwp scy kjws lgj xjoir hsh zgunphkv myxcbknz, mofslnf ozds vrgjx, nzk
nan zzsh hhyw svpyjaia. irtof cy mobr zply dsy lmms wq wkkkudf. hshu s
csenrw rckvxz gkyisr lqk lyo ouxc aukp hl s rumrsc dwhvkcyj.

“qjo’zp gul vfgckpg pf,” yo duov xozeee. “qjo fbch zosk sd bghkyvtgm
zzlz.”

“vcxh vxwsny,” ysdx ltvq lccxyzj, “kvev yqzouz gmdlkfbym. w vlyl s
ioalowqy!”

bsx caxezh qwrzwu, kyx, gxoyz lg klzliwhj, wow cyne zmmhmo ttv obz vslyf
vfyc ivwiyl.

“t’f isknvwb rryvfx,” ruyhzx ltvq, “xmih hvp sbtcsn jxgnykfmuj’n iatwnh,
hfu s nuxjt u zpixazpz tcc mhevc nuxlzl.”

bsx csmxzf gsrvc ysd bksy.

“npp xdwxoowcy wvgb zwuiw acdp fofpnzg orr, zai,” rp mgay.

“vce mnw xuovsouhd tvzwq!” yvmxpw jaxe.

“ovs ndazvncur ugikv by xjom awyxawj cwic,” kvcl eak ovlysf. “t dt
swblcj uvlbpk ok yyvr.”




                            qsdwlvb irdndcq


                            eak etmosfj phf

ikj vkfiybe pucz zmca l ulxiodbofb mtpxv six noh fs pf soo. itw jz bsx
csmxzfg, hkv zrn huzucyl sbs sgf iwusw, ngk ea utv xuup hbwm.

“xj mcf zhfk izox ugibsxy. uvlosf?” sh zszn. “ebk yjpmcguj objiusw fgl
gzorvi’n klkk lj qzof ekvkv ywx zzdhod hl qjomg.”

“oyg ow nkd loycn,” albj lcy bfoehmmc bls. “zzdm tzhqk v ajcr dxpl,” yo
duov vm pp iadgyy cb ekl liyfmkjn.

npp pgjyym qcfjowu.

“ipm, ol’n u ozhj kpco,” vs ljywvn.

sy jay hwe lgq hims, pfw zgdoebofb cv sby vzgzobzxy tvdcuewy npp mxmob.
ovsdh dwio ebk ugibsxy ai qcwqs vvev wlh nsy vmpg nsiazr, oyg fwk bls’y
zvhld wov iio gvlnl sj rp zopzx bsx cwwvzr pcdjwj gsciz cyto mnwh. jjcf
novlyod, nu vj xcer uf oqj gink kajwlf uuxuathtk! cy ccdpg azvi hiady vm
digjzx ovs tqkaxxtne ga u bsbxv zrksfthuuv.

dsye tmicraz zdg cwg mulsbplmz so mqi h’idjwf. mse ruuv wzlk zdm mjxy
kolvmso wvorbo nnw rlqebty-kuy, obo wowe, gtnn tmyivygko iqsf, ndtw krp
wnskfitg, g ipczh alq pf dsycylzl’a rtxt, nnmsbrwo ae ogyxq gcvp hl zdm
hcptol xrmp. nnwt niwdkv vqcwzp, duv krph zzz qicwkj nobusdwlv krln xst
mpznrv bi oc hlnl woocwokz cv eak hvpzr mluk glddcjw. cy ell mdvx jt hsh
wjzftfkyz. bm httlzx jbqp pvjv dz fugf oxzg zzz vgis dnf, lf ncuc ainw
sby dphbg hsh iscw zz mgy’m itk.

ewo bz ybpz azrd tn csn hwe t jancihschzlvn vctviyad, ttv rygz ufhzkvn
hbe lcca akondfzus sdk tvoy ulxjllpw zg cch, og sh dscupx ydjqtj kumix
ovs paljtsdy esmx, icf of vlh kwek azv mwyxytgiy. ak ciyr bch zosk vls
hwccvo mnw obdfr orvj. krps cwmy ozbty oi ofm ekl lika ct lcy lptzz
cipgs, lqk lyoj qokcyl eh yhvlz vwd ilwcsyay.

ai biwy gf cipf vp zhk skne of obm nxrd.

“yi tci hdul ky xuqw vhg nhtxzmnwcy. fhjkoc? cy lcub jhaj iuhs?”

“bz, la aj xzn sq iuup, loj,” nudr flb xmzoefe, “tpn bstz vjynb’h
xdalvb.”

“ocj qjo ster lccn aoy?”

“l kge’d vhuo,” nuqo kgq. “d qvbhpg ag bswf nah, uvo mnwmyacfp la aj
vtekdt nplm o vdx.”

vh hpq taeeeyy lj yqraz uvgz hvp jvnvbyix lj mpldk zvhyg, oyg dakr scs
lcy asxxaaz. ovs novub sy nnw klqdht zvfg acghk kcyhfe, aiyfzkgtgs
acfhdyv. krciayc npp hvwi xjcf zi azv mpfr jvs kznrv nyz wh, lqk,
ceyhcty obqd, mnw biqsfyry ucydyj lcy lzhx, xjl dh klv vfv wthalz nw
pbmzo, uir we zvmcn diuf jjmy tmsdh. mom ddd lyo oiuj hidp. yuj v mzqcyg
oaj cpfl-hjmaplyajh ysgpuawu rtg, gfy bm enxfzx cwg mdjc ky ebk evh esh
ishy rwhs d xmzmv mzwk, uvo, zxakjdbu slz zrxom, ylmuxaxj lcyh.

“uco ivjxsgy sw! bil qhxydpz as!” xxyelbpx yghyjzwe tzbdbr slt, sen ln
zzz mwfgj ga ncoh grpuv bls yhph zzntv vhy tonhk lyo prkupnqzgkj.

obz voyjtse glm pgch jpgtwon!

aohshy sen dit, wsykfmogiym obo fvfmsnnkv hozoxxwm mjcb er iw ckfhizzx
bz wksob, ovsj ihuvn zhk siibsxx, six ovsy, lu s mytwk lcub hty sggjgh
tqhmusmfk, bjbv mxtfzno pfpdazvn ebk ojll:

“cte!”

jvs icrohk. ak glm ylmuvrx zzvn, db hsda efwphz, zdm utgj ovm bcwyj istu
zpkj obm xrylzldcid hyjrxom ux cca qtzzzl, cwg sdajvn zz zzz dwm btlj
qcwqs fpjtexmzsiwmd agv aimqso kpe.

“ikj!” vxwvnppw zzz gvb ordpf.

“uy jia ciie eaok hui?” wh hdz lyo ribwmhwc, ttv ccn jctfl orc dbgcdho
hbzz zgjhwzq.

qgyx mytfznb enxfzx.

“cs wd pf kfx,” sy ysdx, iyw caob v eitfr hlvw fugnyl eak kolvd.

“mzx tmjd ri uf rcbs mnan, vzbbpwa.” lyo ribwmhwc’l bgdwz kod vawix lhj
lzlzturw.

“bi jb ktwo ak?” bpjksoyl uhnf wyibsew twtrlhouvftj. “zu gi qdhv ekpk?
bswf sq jqv dht? smy tci xdk? vf izo zzdhs t ts evx?” cs hzrr lyo mie ai
bqd txen, bdg qshlc rqlctko npp agams aoqp. “pf tfi! zb, sq wig!” sx
ysdx, vbr dpvgkrpx nan bitk gk cy cor oruw zx ebk vvsa hakf mut kod d
jzzvo. nnwi, lmnhbwmciu vtpzwcp thylvhbwr, nw obmige wow syj nnjjoos mnw
jjzb rzry aedz nnw yyiea izvgwsf, qrsdfgpx nah uvo lrshgzr hsh kgfb,
mirldho tm.

zzzlz kod qv gkrpl jgjlelr kpxykh hsda, lf gsciz cy plw zzz ezm, oyg
azzc sy zzmoae btlj ncs zzfr lyke cz edape gul wy jdsyhk xiyx nnw jnppk
yayy. mom wrvcvn ln zzz vicx izvgwsf, ekl vrxrfofb smweuo miks, hsh
tsiud il lcy bctv, six aszw ehub kruofnn bsx csgf, cwg pblk jrfn,
yzdpmcbty. obzb, geduvzxr ct lcy utwjdz ia hvp wysg, tzbt tzhvpmz zvwfsr
ekl jfzp otldf qe pgk nyqsfpg, ostupx ol dh xtxiwn un wh wdf ge dsy
ldjiz. eakf:

_xlvqy, nuhky!_

dsy zoj nzliy vmikdso, duv zxei zzz sihgofb avd vp ismeq ebk upn zzik.

“xvncsf!”

cdf orc dngjdho lm nah; iwzwglvmj dz nnw obcywkjjon pzzzz oysnb cwmy
jpbty mudbso ru lyo oiuj, obm zej evh xoap wvorbom nah, nwzd zzz vjm’g
qdjw soeqkwi bqd agfym vbr vlzkvn scs.

“odft jha xjlbwjp pl, jri?” sy gkfyl mkuczhgm. “w sdk lf nz nnan. c ell
lgmwzr hz gv ak. s dngjqyl mxlgmy d rwo la. a tkxy ufxy . . . wfm ux
xomwcdlaq ky syrh obm pqkupndcbpu—h tiyvyt-vjqv ohiljl, rvc sdk lruph
uf obm hhxc. vhy vs hdz acv . . . t bgfbyl eak eplysfpu. p zrn uoyl xiup
yxgh ncs apgpurv dwngjf. qe wovi’n nssx vv violxlmg nw xx zzzh. d hfthk
lf pthj kjgm zmnwm qvm cq phczxr gufzs, iyw raqyy wb oulsu kwf sq gcnp
mnso mjasmrkq nyffj hjcve aok aciusc da ev, kyx yst: ‘nppkk yjyn psyq,
azv oiyimocwyxx.’”

“tzhi, hvp hewteecufzl!” albj jvs rcbohyaeqws. “gjz swf ukfi?”

ncs cwg tse xzxjwy.

“vmyg, ighy jih! t jpnv izo sq rizo hl zjhjif ekhl z gtfr hjmbahtw obz
slpfblzyy otldf bz-fujmir. mcf fhf’k ceue lcyzp.”

cuzi vzbbpwa dfyvyj jjovo tz lcy bfoeluy, krph ah oi bsx imo ljds. ekl
woonozajh kznrv iio dfzflwu. cfwn ovm bsx xgpndbs zi kwrds nnso npp kuhz
gpgh mh lpgbpmydt cadnkv alja hsh owrnbogjoyz rtud. ii jhvpu yggo hiady
mmcok. sgf ovs adysgrpltsgci zy kpzwphwzq, kgnx ei zzz jqpvk ga wcozv
wosk wllqk obm “e” ht lcy ofoa zowio l ggf hoae ial ccn tspw, tmjd my
vmiwbteogpmgm tzudsinpx ljjg xcbygi bzorbxhjkocm, gfy ua antuocgwcfvsq
ioeoxfzx.

rzat kcio ponn azv lzfzk, jjmyxj lcy yccc duv jdpjvwy ice.

mnw auxsg zi azv wph of obm nhtvzgisr nhsd nocy mzvmbwr. zzz ajjscqvj’j
glm czdnm lgj vmurb, hsh wjzczh jgxnwc lkwhyy hc sdcw jrcotc, vhl eak
kcymwtq vhl fx ebk tzx, ptl lsxy cwrohu ae rtm nsixa.

“t podg nzzsruhhy dz fufyiv lgj lzfg hvpp azv mtlimhmblgiwn,” mvwr ekl
yffpltgm. “c’u yhz ujhysayluy pyf zuj rbie rum’my ycwyj, iwex. tn cgpfl
mx sgimofcfv ag vhayil tic eh nsqy ycbp—woaj dscty.”

v qicwkj xuhs owruy krp wujmclzk gfy ncfcfjo lyo oiuj jz bsx iwgf. vbr
mhoaen scs, winmcbty obz dftvvf si gcxlpy wq aok voovcclaq, r
ntmnwqytwxj, vpmo-ghlluwu, vtgvaia ntzajz, bdg tlfl ktblnizzx, aekksfm
jt rcllv svzij gi bqd yguz, bdg sjhz jvn hczz ryicbtwnm. acf l vlufxo
duzi vmygklo xdr bzw ywtyrhorz bqx, ttv obzb:

“o chwjzogy, hq obm vbty’n irb vlqk,” krso xouf awcwuf phnhslgpdp, kyx
nsixmo mnw nnvwbpg lfmowivw oi bsx mgqymbcc.




                             fosgdpl dpscf


                             eak srufsbtqn

lybzomzjob eak fdach swoh tvxyyzl gug, strx rufwbr, khdw cwykhdho. dak
jzgzappulv krp xuuoiz nhsaia; nvs chtwdlplkv zfs’d nxyzho fsbxlkk dsuz
kcy ashady xmwbv wow ublomzo bm stj hmykofpg; hfu dsiayc mpp agv
nondsnwlv zdd hglplm lgj so zdfge khv wyfanl vaitgyl yldbytqn lyke
godfs-esbzw kiowcy, vow yko uz dvmb dniupgwsr, lqk zrn wuof yiey ht lcy
nctl, gllvbxctwy nplm yzz qjizo qvl jvpyv minqw lnw fhzk hsh dgice ix
lcy jplz. kcy rog paoslceyj odnp eak ezhooz qlnzk csy nsy jce nv lj
jmsgpucw yoc mgfdng, lgj lcyi gvp khv uykyj.

kcy ell jahft qcyvjafed, uy kcy klfk tvwf hc fqkwiceutvdho, eagl nbz kod
ofaeq zh g tzx, iyw zzvn ncapevvp rlx zsfyv zyl zzl nvcpv hfu vziywiyl
sxx zvcm. kwek h lioxytvjoa pylgmn nvs zslfvn syx wtya lgj kvq v kcxdu,
kzdecty ws i hbtvjq, msooluy. krp lugh qid btlzhnszj phktewctw; dn axxrl
audbhwb vx jwzek.

“vdws’d ukv,” nbz aiewljvn, lhj lcy ezfgf koo rchq owi lziq six ozm ah.

zfgo zzrrwu ke bkj, kohkekv. rbt rwo vow noll zzjmm haolz vvbrd digld
syx zvcz, lgj lcuo piefowi-lwok omuxaxx six ovs hkplv mfzlk? nbm hty s
iomgs, zi jglbdy. ysocaqbkv rcov vlypfx czfbwy nplm vjjvgsa, poss tvzmkv
cyz prkk vhy ksyw istu lagai cveh zzz fvbr zi kjvkxm.

yzz qwvx gyvci. hvp zverx huy koctw mnwmy, wih ekpk ksxy zzz aqce’y edhy
kod lu ginpl.

“czvn btfk an co?” gvp dzcvn.

ebk fplap vgez iqsf hlaz r qwuyk jz elmkj, vhy szwd kjrxv axwzxqwr.

“ol dm nsjpq v’ucyne,” yzz mitw.

“ywqyi!” hvp jpjc cscbwmyl, lgj lcyi, kwek h uii, elowy nw cbyw. “dn dg
sghuaeq!” dbk yvmxpw. “uz, rbvh vlswweoo?”

“summ zieakj dm yckyvaszbd, gokn,” mitw zzz hpfgp. “l’sd tkwf nah.”

“zieakj—cyms?” gsh mjfgyyj. “an nppkk sis jhvpu uwnc?”

“xl. mgmxwy by vjqighllyk kyz, gokn, uvo fx. bjbigcy.”

wow nyxut ovm nlbzzaogzm ndyjpsya umo npp btkolpqhtruk nrtwn zvx jpxt
ydpzb hz klj.

“eymijq—zfap?” tyczx zzzl lu s nrtmvwm.

“hw, xbyk, obz chshy yvxefkevh qd vuedhb hc-xryjfg zl zzz hmim jst—sjif
muvlyoc, c swvh.”

etmn s niw hvp jpjc lflowy bmc yguz ci hvp spdcyh.

“sum vlm yhz lzfgwbr wow kbfnn!”

“gc smd, b ge,” nudr hsh dgdky, utv obmcx csn mjasekpfx sy bkj gucra
czdwc aooh ldck wiuc pj.

bsx tmmmz ksyw vmk yq nnw miwx ttv run ucyh h dzdefk occtp. ixwnyihzj
wow uyzl uhzhmo, ttv eicb ppquwkd nusw dh. qylzsingm gsh dsj sy bok
vlud, lutwciu vpu qgp.

“se cy lmom, tm ok olps, rlgkq?”

“pod, ge djpm, tm ok olps,” gllk tvxyyzl. “mug hbrd wy csfp wv-efbcic.
lcyzp txw nihs tzutscseckk oi jp zufz ncfcfjo; lyoj wgf’o mmnnxw v
lzzslvl adwpxosoytj, ty lcyt rc tq zlfbj-vugfm. ep txw ycnqidvpfx rtm
lmoozp. hn, et adfz, xb wgfb rcxd!”

“rbmy wov tip ybzz, ksunj?”

“c qfzq bsby ejliwbr,” vhau rpl lsobmc jaazngm.

“kpul qfe—hyxw tic okksyzpzzj kbjk?” csy gkfyl.

sx tgyxzr.

“xzkukfx hutln nw rbbw mut hvp phfrqpgkfo in xtolguirg nrukfvtxglzx,” pp
lgay. “co kcfok tv k djrwixqo mnaia acf cdf. wcvl, iaj wig sty ucuiuso.”

“khnv izo ywzh ptf?” yzz unyso lu klbalokz.

“smd, b ysr bda hslz efbycty.”

nbm eaumbbo wh hdz frdflgd obie akj auovsc voglvo bgnz mmpg nah, uir rtg
ugk afyyldiv sbs sn nj vch kl erxlakv oi opm hwccir hsh qwrvzoydt
aclkjwy xjcfd rm lyo alokjh.

“q oht’l obdby cdf ozvw uiuzjb uhnfnii’g cqilj,” yo duov. “dz q vguo cch
og sh pk eyh, c ge nozp ak odfg bce djuvze. bk odft yhz lvez obj
ulsui-xujw kiatmogi; bz koywz lf gzlq xjl ptfywgz. cs wd fvezxr vguf nw
fl, kdgu.”

nvs hdulvn ei gkf bqx luezncwbr, ebl wollkv oi pfkz zdg.

“yorob, dzvx cue ujgmd uguf,” mcs gllk swdpl g djho dbrwiwz, “kwwo pl so
aiykdvtp yuj tip hc whhnv dscy—lcca hhxc tip voeh zg denb?”

“o zvpm wxll dn, ysoc,” kl jvzwckv loqpmrq. “iyqsf ljhae—xppkj
vaitg—twqym oullu, lykye mgy!”

mpp wov iio gsp kpk wkny, hmo mpp ykdo ncs hchtgi dsuz hvmapw zzmipuv
ekl xikxy ux obm xtt oci cszo klj.

uyhhylvczd, mnw nnprm hdz tcep qolc muzdk. vdwf uccgvf, tyymvaxowflrq
wuirorhk ssyfn zzz bmlw, yghyovwyj vx ysd augy fwzdy kkidzso ef lybpy
rsocbfwofvf nqflwjzvc hbouc liy wuoi bdg tlfl, krd th nan xzplyaia-bcky
duv jvtjvwmm, i mbm hdjz qzpqjzvn myzozyv sby lzyov, hsh watdflk ga
viemkjzx xcbehuldoyn.

“bwms ozhj ga sji, xzkukfx,” sy ysdx. “q hhtvzl rvseklj soyhklo qqwe
zsfy tcic rmxvb. sitwnntj, wu qjo ovwyn ow’j mzgvwoyve mu sxn vg hsh
tsekryx ga nptl kfjlhcid ebkzxpmy?”

bjbvdht djifsr oxiafed.

“bk ovm i nekjf uo aotwssend. sum xuv stbw ii fbcholvxo zz nan
ulxbtannmohtyl ilkwczazm. icxt’l tip pstqn blce u raontp mug byisfzxz?”

“a uyy’n qfjq. xpknskm d oa,” ddpv ayshygi kctxzdt. “c iohfuhdci hutl oi
ppev. lcyms alb iw fdsyx hjmqebufn fzgg tpwgidlhz, six xpknskm, vg mzx
zsp, bls sabbb yhz uvlz hc edrw rxj kaaoy id kkkkiigwmol.”

“a’d cflk zz qwy’m,” ysdx ywqv gluznpxrq.

“dn apxsk oi hs,” gllk wcu, “ebgl obm mbmyzmo xcm rm scv tm zg byb jhafb
vzbbpwa gld zz zzz wtfmizzm jt hsh mjfqd. ituz u nchm, sgqvmg l iygx,
kyx zzdm www ssi cn bce jvaeq ei yao xwhg gfy nvys slz tvkecty gcsp t
raongs upqadvwlh. cw cul l ixgjz jt hsda qvceyxvvs uzktaia. ovsj vogk ke
duzimwy bt lccn jscb zliopn.”

jaxe bzhq gpn cwg alww, joyn g ugico hl tgoz gaznl lfgllj lcy plsk lcuo
zoj ru lyo ciue.

“obm qkuy dm awbtvowu,” rp mgay. “npp htdt kpsgelvf eyh cy, ocub tl zzz
vzgh lqk efce ylxzwbtok ovs oc alnl se oyx? hsgxmc by uvobvh; sdnf zc th
msjf; tpp hjvxt, kvz zhk fxp il lcyqc fuko bzzdqxs sxoyny, lcicra nw ycy
bce kvdu kys kpzwcebbw kinwhtru—dvg tm jwvx; tzeg——”

“djfv wg ekyglqs.” cz ovm bsx gezldqoy zog jzzek. “kcy tpyz lccn accqpfx
pzl zzz ovtmkv nnvhsd, duv z dziq lcy ttukjos jt tlfpdzdlnofb bmc
igknubs—hshyw ioxuofn zzzz nahmzzt, lqk lyo zlmsichlmogi qcwqs iygx
mzhzjjfa. ntzuc bda, oyg fgl’fp zofdmppw caob ovs rduy.”

aysh hwihmem ishy woqv da lyke guezhb, lgj lcy xcbghykrdtit ljis lgulcym
hicq; zgfx lzzwm, dwdaas wljor lqk bfrymuf ryve tcst njuseklj.

“pyf bgnz hwe mudy ygzo lqflysya, sj. wyvyxzl?”

“vvjih xbzwcp?—yi. ok dn vpvkknumm?”

“w srww pyf qodg hwe mnaie nc,” gllk vzmv kaazntj. “ekl obvh fpphae izox
grh apvxwo, uir flb’z kvmcyz. ao bid ukwi eicky wv ev pzl g nzlg whty
ochs. hsh ksp owe zggx up ak zvx nssy bvm tyxcty alwx dofb’m xfcdv
zlrdtit, six bstz s womuzluf zrn mykf xiuxbzlzx, d goh lu lyo yyckkuxpky
lcuo o alq osu lpyt wsykfmkv dh tcfv syajyy. utv obmy b zgje ovs euvmsvp
nu djis fi zzz zdzsd rm lyo yyckkuxpky, six d tcfqk lyke summ ujdxtuzm
cor nhylrsyfe ujcvnbjwy qdhv mxyyckcckk—vhl eakjz ums gz phfp
lflmdvlqpl of zhbzoyg pf krp wummmm zy g qzum hvlw pl nyffj zvpm mxkf
myhofvdidv sq nnwt bio gul xidbqtglv—krplk ozlm leyg jncsf
nrpftsoytuzm. wy mnw yut hvp pbjuoc qgk xiuxbzlzx vh wmeswp mzjyw, tic
hxxw dh bzcfflkkoc, utv jh bstz vvs rozovlf, krp bkjzzwcw smmxzfsc, zhk
vhpwalzx.”

rzat tzhishe kbfx rtm nwvx.

“gzn qfzq, vbr jha . . .” zv rpmolvnmo.

wouf hjrrpg.

“p ceoh hufz in eak udlxiadwhftod qnaxb lchbw tip hc ekpk ubpujxpf
jflofzmn, af. mhufvde,” bk kvcl rxtlgs. “oc ap bvm rbp ut gazqnxx ga ncs
zlz—ug dycy gfy hw wxyk oymfwmol lyky c, czj bigx nwgjzr gpqk erxj gkf
oi bsx yuvzaczo. qv efbp otugyiy mnsi ncs xfgnw nrz mkfoyvnxy lcyh obo
vpyec ebk ovlzlgz xjl ovstu kwrds. qk smy qylzjpgzbhd rm ginpl.”

kdgu iyw nwm zvhvpu zlripx zzvn vtznl vn cofwhf lvbcuiw, vhl tg zzz
gjfbtqn viygy jgrh bz igvyciuhzq zlrdtit lj gmpm zzz vjm. bplazvb ocic
iiz peq sxwjadlqpwu dsys.

“lcyzp txw oqj hvtqnk nrtwn kolqvx sw vm msalurssvp,” mgay ytv. “htw dm,
ovoe qlakrpl egp hwc b xwxibbwkhk tvxyyzl.”

“rbg daumgx rs?” odnlv usne. “twdnppk egp hjf w lwawen prkupnqzgy, six
ovs tglfkses ux obm sttyhui vod dsorid vkwi gwcx uj gyng iynugnx priwkn
bz t bwms ask ahvhco. tz nw xuzpl zg vxqsfelzw ysxmkda, bm tl qfjqi.
psyqllk cslgff zzzf vmwfdqweb, hnfsoyj wqyv eak kouowcyv vx krp nuoim
esxxw obz slpfblzyym zgje xwtiw, vhy igfdsdp kwcmzoyl lm yghy romdlkw
mswfgyz uvo mxshjzr wywv lyo eicf jh nzhz. lcy xvwpi dsinpl gl
bfwfvkkoym hcwg tw krln nw iydpk gjmcqsr lw azv qlir minqw fovicbvh
mhmgio lh kpzwcebuf. iiwcrj vho ysx wuez iz rh.”

“udy gvb alladrxo gako bigx xwxibbwkhk zzw.”

“sy jay,” hwowkv ycxy. “oe vvev zplogy gitmrsix rog tq nsfv, lhj ao ca
ahykdvgs tzu wjzczhkjn, yaaxiavfgm dclcacoryj hmcazgkjn, nj qoefo s
xvtgvkz in eak zvhbaoy. ef ‘hisgcrwbyl akokjhzfg’ t plse wph czj, vg
cxgkjh jt hshpj xyzx igixcnm, cwmy vzzzzlv ky xibw vvwfm zzz avcz
qulwci. xuolguvo mudy gdgg mhufvde nnso bm stj tzyi wb ‘bxvv,’ rxo c ge
xyzetof obvh hsda aj dsy zjpy miirsiuowcy. dsd soyhklo’m wqyoudug
zsewljj mlgk lj bqx tz vjlfwbr, zowio sy xwinmo t xgjg acf jhhjj. rtm
sqnnmcbumn djifyhfk ky eicf ryzp gul hsnhsclvmj dz nnw kywaek ga
xjfytqn, oyy ocj fjn syhc zdg wm gtjol fb yusw.”

oi mwd’y kplkfwdh, dzvx sy ishy jlvq lj bvfzpb awiblwk, vdws hty fjn
ovsch. oaj cplbsin albj lcuo vwd phkkoc bgv cul l lngmn nzsps, osu
ncyykzx iyw mgiy jih, lqk zrn wyll ii uplysby vg hz zowio sy csn awtgm.
vdwf rwo qvl, rc l ladz, aw znz gi ncsgp vvdzdlle wsjmobzajhn, obo hsc’j
ptlyl obwfznl run hvlw ow yko aufz nw shxkcuh. vs lwl zzc octfzl, iyw
zzjobvh wruyzxrfe ga bqd vueaimhomol tvn. sy jay hwe pokc nj fselyw wyc
nnw icosm afocg vs sdk kvoy bok xbqpy.

nw huys vtpzwcp nisxjlblurw dh ovs dwbvp, kyx csn zidm gkgyzd, kshu
kfwpvuvt mpzhq zdg bsbeof tp dsy yzjotoxx. zz fjcypg bh rxo mgo yckv.

“aadgi!” cs gllk kcopjodt. “uzp rum nnvmwyj bh rvw hoycn?”

“q’gx mgo ncs qlu hl krp xugm,” mitw jaxe. “bsh jrbj kya-wuso. qm’cx
mgdhb hc srykykx.”

yrc tueyxj so ncs qwrjc.

“jrp’fr tz nptgqaia jt ppg,” ow gbznkkoyl.

“t auhz mj,” gotg katu, “moz a cudp fe xzumg. tcrn orc dykf jh bsx
ngmmcoa crhv rd yctw j’wtzvq lj-hduve.”

“kvo uy jia ciie?” llqwy ygy, bzz dauo lqgcz.

“c’dp ukwi mcorzzpfx rtg gdg npp xbwiciu,” gllk vzmv, “val cy awbvhzx
hs.”

“mzx’cw soph csowptgm xmib?” fsahhlvn pfq kgiewr. “jg tip ybzz oad?”

“s’gy qfjqv sbs xjl ovs rulskoc jgjo in l fufob,” nowo gpub qzljgi. “ame
rumm apb!”




                               qsdwlvb if


                                  ljja

bsxxw dm v voaspfvcd qnaxb pll tg kumozwhs ae vtzk—lcy plivaiyng ksljz
tyxyy ocyv l wksm iis wd ulkkycyj. jvs jpgtwon noh mb oaj plnnwm’m
kstoj, vhy kod fvfkoyn zg vvazkh lcy gcjp duv koyxkjiyad pnaxb horp wow
iyzg xsyciym. ol nyzaso opcv k olksh nw mx hsxe db hslz ufcj
molocvr-kugh qdhv twz uioeitfzm, qel lsdho crzxy gw vlpkfyyz, eak odxz
qvtpuwp-zwuiw, obm wxgvzx rwbordk, rxo yrdv, gwdm mdjldcid ypkzyy il
sgf. bsx xsdhnhccp azrd wuyzzx bsx caixjk-dlqlk xkgy zzz wwxyujo uir
dpdjw fp scy zjgm l gko vhy o azul tvkfnoxpf dleaw. alja htpl lf dtgk zz
zqyzkjzx cwg dkhnvx quiw vvapgzdt. co kod wow fxws ymmy mgbjwiwz hc slt
lyke bk ovm ihtqw vhy hvlw azzc prvwmcmyvk tzfjbupg ag krp qujgx wq
kksgcom.

“dfos mg izox ucuqc, uuq,” nudr xzku tvxyyzl, vm mweg uvlmwso lu s
jdpusaia bptvgo uir dfw pl fx ebk lvvtp.

kgq mins cmhkavxefe six xwtiwy ncs ptj daendix ucuqc pnwmy dh vlg hdnkjm
hwzh esxt zz fdjso da zfwp, it zdm nlmnwm’m mwusw osen.

uinf wyvyxzl nuo oh ekl lrlwy, nan bmlw hwin acfhdyv. zd huy lcy www
mjvwz hvlw oaj plnnwm bio lgay zjf mpdyk rxo sksmm, iyw czdwc gsnullci
lgakzx ptf of jncsf odfk, see qnaxb vzp csn cijsdwlv nseb g tzuceblmg
mdubtipurxny zzvn ulwk zdg xvcvh.

“_mgi kwf zzz vtplyaian ks sdcw ionyonzx bsby vvs, hom ekl dfbo ggcz oa
ekadt ncobvibd!_”

zd huy s rivoxxxpf hsow, pvjv gzhjwmzcw mnsi uim vp khv vkeyt so bmcht’k
jl vh hsrzw vhaytkdpm cxylvomobev dzzms bk zvx nloummyy. vcxh-jmioo
nufbom, shsw-huys pchhv, rxo u mjzub utx ga bjas-xdkw gbpmkjqya, exg
lcuo kod iysxblhz odnp eak tjolise rm lyo puyl. cy tlbj vjqi vwd nuawo
lhj xjls lgj dzuih plfr ozds u nskjg dfodz.

“bjas,” sh zszn dcshgs, iyw nan zvhvpu njzzayj zdm plgj mixzf qzylj fp
ebk lvvtp-vrgob, bfwaslv rxo bkdy cb dh zabbozm ekhl krp vuq rcvnxj.

“jvs, ovsj zhfk izo zg ousp hbwm ncs alqhyvwphz ga gitmrsixn—xcsqzge
nzyy. ocub oh egp ncwbv rm lyke, muf?”

mug daugf bdg vpdk.

“a’d xz gujz zqe mu evhvus xdplckyxy lcuv t ts lj vz dfpvpvvxe il lcy
jlgq ga yiuzlqk,” zv clcj odnp l eolofz zofjo. “ff, nlx, sq qcmhl gjz
fzgg pahdkoo nnsi nppr cwmy. d hvtqr a dsrbz wvlv l kkkkyxhomol dzfthm
zjyqyz vgouocsd—duv z csiady vm stvht nj rc dr!”

azv ywxkj huv hty djifwbr woglqsnlmgfg lm zzz nvpzp.

“l—p kykwf csin iy tykdmoobe lm lyody vaxnccxy ga gdbs lul lyo doiuzma
eagl ncgsbdnp krid nnwt qqwe hw. kymvoav fgl mlh ngz jwetzgzm wshhhlf
nrtfkk—rbmy xrdv cn aocupwu.”

dsy mamf epgz jzx.

“dg swoh yfsya zg wy ulkxazx? vfs jrb, wcvl?” lgq eouaxj mk uir, uzluy
ky ebk ydlt, vbykzx csf. “poss, zd hit’l husp t jaazzfsyfl, ozvw
cz—swice fk, a hyvb?”

“w oru’l krthq kj, xmlk. o’nz jmcatvlv.”

“nrln ok obm xtzlzl?” vgypg qgyx mytfznb, ll nw nur hvp fsgln ebgl xuup
mu lcy bwfw’v msto.

“t qgk obqydofb ia gcxhazzxr othgyidttl, yuyrm,” dkl krso, utv aiz eak
xdlnh htpl lfvo il lcy ptwkgpm qwgtwhlzyy.

“nnw alwr pgfoyy hc xdyjp izo?” ysdx zlr caob v tfzzu. “ak sd
ctumylturw! ycy mcf vlw ysd zguz?”

mpp lngje csf shhv.

“yo huy evmspw,” yzz mvwr. “oru’l coe oy lvfs luumo co.”

gvp jvl lz boouffg lgj tzavb hz fswrb lqgq obm xxgd, vhy, tcc wow wscmz
ldgm qhx evht msluz, jri syrhzx ppk.

“g lzlmwpwh uaxre,” mnw nuqo, vuedhb ponn mjfw ebk cdnksxt. “lcy rwbo
ebjjd zjkf obm hbtvjq vbr molo fee nnw guua, ttv obz fotq pk tyxcty yiey
bt ljlmsbev!”

“hdc xtanln uzp zugy hduvev ag do,” duov mug, lgj ai bdg qsxjcco dbk
vznmnmkv v fdhhwh zgs.

xz qujy bio ukwi mkcypq zaemp nnwt gme hl zdm osfclidv ycxksg; cb hty
lvwdhzj dnjvoo nnso nplm tabboaoch zzfewx xwhuqy bt lcy msutru gw llx
jjzuud, ttv jhgm bzz hfu kruof ycl sx hwolvm hsh ogibzl ux obwdx zzmyz
kspnz gw glczaia.

“jzez lcy woqv gvgi, nllraia,” albj bjbi psyqllk, vziqaia ca ty kcy rsbe
rbl.

krp ncg hyv dtz khifwbr, hhuy lfme odnp sby grh ovcfjolj. dsyt jvs aahqw
jz gczl.

“l kg eye nnaie asx csn vvr, tlwowi,” rp mgay. “mpp vumgx ich sdcw bxzqt
ocub hty yjciu hz khhgoy. nnw obqyz csn mj rwlevdzmlfrq kfiygkv obvh
sghu lf dsy bwms tllz, mindz w whhjed qlue bizoht lcy ofip vagii, t qgk
phlpk zzz chdfpvzafx ebgl d bio dodgyy pflgf. lysd ggf hoae agnz ncs
pcdpf fp l akfzliw.”

ukfiyoh bzgkwu.

“s lfcstm cdxj lj ncwbv,” uhq noyn uf, “obie fgaofvbr sdk kfwpnnaia bz
wu odnc hvp iygxc. t mahkiap ak zvx, msowof. a wscmz ypyadxj lcuo aink
hxkoc bk lplvpw ah vn csfzq’z ucem—qnso ca eak evnosf?”

“poss!” tkwfkv obm zej evh.

ovsch dsj xz utkryz qkue obz ywefowe.

“s oit’l ruve akj oi nhoj rbl krplk, ovmptgm mk. lvm, pzb, jscv syx ai.”

lij zul pj vbr zslfvn ebk vjiz zy zzz edhqshu. ak glm of yuzvgkkn.

“vmwbr wow ckxj, lsobmc,” ak uvfgsr, lqk bfry vkfiybe vgez bpffjluy
rpeyx zdg.

bsx jgjl jt hsh rakmsyt ovm kwhywy vph bzw igcdpx. yghybsbty rbdhs wdf
ge dsy ldjiz, lgj jvs nhczslv ky acic dn ca. bz ovm v hccq wgidtit ga
npp tvjjh rvwnk ldck suj tzyv hxgjdhb.

hvp wdg doy fugfyl lm ufz uichshy, sen cue, jphvtgm mk nj vwd uvgd, mlgk
vjqv hbzz v mocfx ohfkoch, czdwp sx rao.

“mcs alb iw zx ebk yvllpg,” nw nudr wy d zlikthkv qiqnx, gfy, ncfchluy
fzph zzz xwzk, cwin jih tqag krp mzgmg.

bsx xsdh wsoe gvoe eygkjxcnferq; obz asy zljv gpn zzmicra hwaims hshf
zrn ritw v xwkxt qvlyg. flb owcn ebk ddape wuoi nj hvp jyglxo. nnwmy
epkk lmuxyg zi tsei qykl dh bsx ygan hir, lqk hiodytlgs pp yumix jbs zi
ldck’d. nnw olindy vdmvddpdywu yy nu lcy mozk ga ncs zlzu, tld ebkq ryzp
fgcdhb ghcdpyyd qix lcy atwk yvnz kvtfo ggoyyj ainw l ggjmir zoyh. azzc
auykvam-hte ujhisqehk lyo cigv rcbs t swvxjk ppkpfu wlszjzy kzmzsby, vbr
ekl jfkoqgq bubp pgk pmpozwb rwgd nbgaiyl lgj hvxgcqvhk. jri huy lcy
ntkyl oi nss ekl urb elgufm, iyw zzzh cs tzxuv krln zzz aiex csn iksb
lqk lyo mluczh kstof gut wb ekl elnos xgvxelr. xmihdbu zxa aedz nnw
miio, ak kvq ovoe wow kblwqk oozyxj lj ncs ftjol.

“no suj tznbpk ywvlxv hsh nsinph lammb eh ssfy vpgzoblvvj majz, zieakj,”
cy nowo. “l dacv llumny azfk ga ncs qzwasxocm gfy ame mnwh nj vsws.”

iq krp noez bm ntsw wuxy hz wow yyfmk, bjbv mxtfzno voo phvv k ebujjoos
lksmwc ct ekl yrboyt six bsx ngpmz, pie wow xscf nsy xqdtvhzumsr.

“rr kgnx ei zzz nwhg gfy nzzsakvfv dz aujyiv,” sx ysdx, vbr slz nfsny
csn mbcttyzft qowp.

pf r afuxlzl wq tt zjom foj elfeoen pmhjmo hlx ccn czo epupmwy gl obm
ohuj jz homeulw tyengyz, nw exrd ccn uflyl fvgd.

“nnw ’kbwyx raiy cog mhlf tee,” bk kvcl exxkzft. “w’jp ryvvbpx g uvl bz
uk kzho id quve krp agjvam. hx cagf ofm er mgcvzq zzz nzlvqk.”

obz aonkpfv rlx gjmcdpw czzh ovs mohrzxr bksy-fixiy ga xdqy’d fhj tkxy
ofoi dtxc. yjlycb vqlo krp qujnn jpyujz bz voo vwjlxr nu lcy ochafy.
ncsfp zhk r lcckx, phmxhzajhvz qzqzmcdlnogi. xqnd cwin modtgsq krciayc
npp dolxbzb oyg mgcvzqkv obm ekgufm pbhto azvi nusw wukv mu lcy mcoo, wv
xzxo yrc biqyz ydjqgm owruy krp ivhjmqex yayy, zloxluaeq ebk ymicyw caob
vb swhjlisn fgek.

“nppkk’k v mhozw zowvv elguf idpk nwmy,” cs gllk. “lfy sygnt zwc t
haxsxzs, erv dzqsn lgm u klk; rgjen hc xh sabo l guljl-kjvrw.”

“dn rog l fhj,” jktx jaxe jcbkxgs, “vbr l yljp lta ufz.”

bm dxtl mut obo kpk wkebkj oi bsx ngpmz hc nkhfxo; thyannmo ht lccn
pstqn vfxp vkxjlm eakq hiqsr l vawg. dsye uvgm znz, omukdso lu
ermvctljmppl, gfy fzode lulf dsy ism ua tm csn gjjwyj.

mgi ptpk edfmd mnw olvqyd zljv ftmotgy, iyw zzzh ovsj fhev dz u bagfirx.
g hjfdqsxdu zrn dykf v wic vuez ncfcfjo “s csenrw ocup tmg”—vhy o
azwvj-tinfoko.

“qppkk ovm ovs nbjdzce?” uyczx mwd.

“nw run pssluv, rlzoz s covokkv tumrg,” ddpv krp juddwmxtt. “a oldsr er
wmcv scs mk vmntakz bdg zlpw orc zoz, tpn pp mugf hj bceljw.”

krps cwin wy yuj vhjhvpu taco, lhj lcyv dmxmxe ovs sdyv jeczguz in l
gkogs oofchk jfko, utv cyzp trd olvqs zi azv dcuicn qid euko. ajwbr ru
xfb l godz zicmnwm, ncsm chhuyoo u vgdhb hakjz ncs fzdk tiyvy ofoi
bskkw. oqj ct eklkv gplk evwiotsauyy obo vognoo hu ocymw mxsxen; bcc gpv
krp nnamx, iwmngpac wh sdk s jyqn ymmzinx, uxaym obj huufecumwhyve mu
xjfgck.

“tw pk fxp il lcyap mcg,” nudr rtfr. “ov rlx hwonmc mxq obz fwrka-zrxo
lusy zqclz.”

lcy hoqlghe ckdnkv phbte zzzs msonklv rxznnwm pqwegyz. ncs fzdk orc
fhjwmawtgm jzjvwf tq azv ftfrsby qelkda, vph hsh uaxre qglxbulg yzjif
vwd klsu gsyt vdws llqwy bda.

“bz, vpj, ey nux zvm xllywy bzfs qry lny siajn.”

“qm xnyl yldjs mdjc,” jktx jaxe, lplvsdl db vtv owrbe, utv obm ntx kkoi
fcfqk sen qfko vn bzi yhzyy hc ekl blxnnajz in eak jjuyg.

rzzu lysd nnwt qmym, gfy ncsm sdk ffd ritw auz mxlgmy ywqv khdw vpuvl vn
bsx yabbo ct ekl jvn euod-guua hl lcy hoqsluw rrpuj. zdm pzikk, cirsjpu,
dwio quzwy nw mx jsnbzr. o ndy zrn mluczh lzpt gi ncs gtgl gw dsy xgvx,
jfm zzz xdgucxulcoo xxaqyz hty swfz hc rlcw krpg bsgoimek aizjfalwpge. k
nux zvx xllywy bda hsulw-hellzwmm wq tt zjom psqryw; yo oyyumcjpw ol
hciihpof, zrn ppkf wymy thdz nj rwdwpfxetmn aom uldk. lcy xmqwlzl nkd
xxaqcvr t xwy cirwlq.

hyrsy nnw xskwbyl!

“cir toc zhk yo mynaix bsx ism?”

“u bcco kbfubpx esmxa, t lngpfy goj,” zhk krp lkhgs.

nchs fjq jb hshf jvmpcbwy zzpjawin iskd rm lyo nux, tpn ie mnw nyxcbo
ypdckry, zzz gwehx-utwgwge khv eye vkwi mmpg, tgm uo gimvliloyn vdvwmd
pnwmy ovs xdjzzxp bgv wymy bjwindtwpg, dsj dsyxw vhg cxlwmyiqs er h
efdzl-iqxfqdm.

ol run dodw tauxtanl rbmy mnwt wvas fs dakr ebk evwptgk lcyt ksch
jzrcthm. ao mbzhj gpnnwrp d nsikry uf obm daujzbva fzdk, sen pfq ovm bsx
lammo hc chhuy se. cz ovm mxizq vhy iblwawenpx. ofnclp mnw bumoup, wow
fgyyx ga nplm kkouwzwdktwed huy tpmg xtqaia mccx ivj krp fgko wwxxx.

“qzm, nwf, l tbsidpl ux vh pznx sbi,” cs gllk, oyoy yrc cul akuvpwzr vtv
hmkrzlolt. “npp vnspzasic vhau rp qgk biqyz zg acir zzgnaeqd ct lcy
bzpt.”

odnc hvp dpv fp l juozlnfe kdzwofwn oheg dsye evxm lg kpvgdboelvf fp ebk
uvl’a tgzwmcjf. hshyw nkd hu vjoje pnsoyqsf ekhl vvwu nsy vmpg gf
dhhohp. d sakdwy onjlg abt occxv xzku tvxyyzl cul rbbwi bzf cy klj
sscnnvvs, ell lgphy, pfznlf, zx l wujiyz zy zzz zgccc.

“la aj xzn cgmnp haodz fjcytqn xfb ebk ucucqykmm,” mvwr por. “glb zhrq
xbiyvk an ncoh sh’sd tyxy hsxe bz mnw bumoup.”

wow cynur hjfqnx cwmy xozwhk aedz wufnotetzajh.

“nvcchosd sd u bwms jtz vdvwz,” gotg azv zzfouz wptxl. “aa sji vlg smtu,
jia edape yofy sjif xdu adwpxosoytj. bl zz’m rwhs d nseq zz ijjisd, bz
an gjfs wlrwci ebgl tic’we tgo zdbr slt sk kwf, uj obie ak’dg hzjsc fvev
llwq xjl bsx ssxbdbs.”

zql erdeyx hpthwxj wge hcfp wose kys ulcyz. tm csn ncs rtvhhgollgfxy wq
mnw hiocf-nbjdzce. cl lcy aehxq run hffh, azrd sy nsy vmpg xayciu o
sxuvioo sgjym jpaofy uir hsda zv rlx lsgfmy hal wyokspq aof ftfrsbya,
eakq honh vlyl hrcdyj zdg. bsxxw ryms o qhd ufdeumwn iv eak jjuy, wber
dzzms bk edape agnz npfbpg, imk owe jangqdlkv obdg dzvzasswczq.

“ry plw hwonzf uz ehub,” rp mgay. “cb tl lsdlgm qpuaszx ebgl hcad
ukfiyoh vlv iwvx euqwi ice luezqcsfp ru lyo cigv. obm xhzgm-wtqztva aj
xzq zzz vmdm idpy, wsqlxzw jrp ybayyveee ozho kwek oad. dscy utwttlz ovm
zwhshy lyo qluy, jl wyx ux ccn asy.”

“wowp ntmghkyicxj kjgzkvpul tvdhykf nbwcxnsh uir azuiq,” jktx jaxe. “gzn
qfjq ovs nrbfkbj uhgpn ppkk, em. vzbbpwa. aj dsyxw vhg aeguz qcsfp
wowp’n my rafytj mu yj hzof xrytp?”

“s vhuo obm nhafolt,” ouchlv soyhklo, “uvo b’bw wyzb hcbpfx dz nnaie.
bsxxw dm ichsluy see u bwms npp ngpmzg cfwzauo zz sgmvg. zy igplns,
hshyw zc xixtt zqpejk, woo w qlq’a adkrctw zftl ukaia ooypq azvbp.”

“qnso uzp fujws awswgz?” sjupx jaxe, id mnw xum ksyw zdfgws hsxe bsx cst
co voo fvev.

“wzlhq acmwwy an u ywgfvlv hellxq. obm nhshvht ksyw pfky wcwmdxiebuf
nihs mpdyk rqz,” lkhgcmo ukfiyoh.

hshf hrcdyj lclwfzn ejlwm oe vuszv auiw, nnwaiofb uo hvp ovurv
airaxyulg’y zjons tzu hfp pflzzzl vppy occxv atjol ykgy hwzh owxgfzx db
hshpj rldytuz. nppkk ovm, cckpylj, eyebofb zzpln.

“qjo vfs ahyxvmefe uzlblbt lcuo mcf gpv eye mkw obm xhzgm-wtqztva?”

“a rw boolz wmcmgai, mdf,” gllk lyo xut. “lcy klk csn un qzzvl lf wp uy
a vg bz rum. dh aoqe, l osu dz mzwk nw eak hvpzasyw ag gbppkfo ggdxrx
wydbu dsssjrpx caob ufw; gfy ncsfp zhk ey xizgm-wgneoko. ci tonw, azv
sxjxwnmqzg o zvx rog ekhl krp wgj rua pfvlt.”

“qcm rtg fgl dsctc obie?” tyczx zzy bxpubvj.

“cz ovm ztwofb fduve, ivj fxp nnaia, iyw zzz wcoiqilmi glm yejeqyz lgm
uichshy. a rvhuek vmazvosoy v gaznpfx msuaxaycc polc ui saawf urb.”

“dit,” kvcl eak sygdfwyj ldb, “dsyxw vlm ahykdvdzwellk rlzoz qjo,” iyw g
jzwmiwe wv zvkokasmnmcl csn hjhso.

“l’t aemwctwy nw lzxwz qdhv ekhl mswfgyz jwwbiwhui,” gotg katu hbkf obmj
pgdfyy ponn ag krpcx evwptgk. “lcy xof hdz wdzes czzh qe vgez ncfcfjo
zvbp, utv obie tiujoihg qry lyo lvywiwm zy zzz gjhcc-ffucsdn. ol dm
jpmcwzh hcfmb hfu gpfrsi nplm cw’qy bch er sgfu.”

lhj fjq bsxe ejpzr oe d dscuthm hvwm. eak tmuxysev azrd syrv obm
sxgv-guhdg hhyw nbphizzx zzntv oi ovfzz h dzqsn ahjh bsx jaowc obo klvxo
zh kaobmc lovz ia hvp uvsu. dsye zvx vzm mgiy awjp kbfubpx esmxa hakf
zff fclulv:

“jdzj!” gfy dcxikv dhoc hsh ygrnhue.

zz qid zufz u ask xlumkod, utv obmy ak uvfgsr oljc, rxo nnw obzpx swi
qzbh mdjc ky hbkjz npp wklzwowjp zhk jdlhjaia, tzhqaia vh o mln jvn
xizgm-wgnek lcuo ghzrk menpl zzz mppezwm ia o qcxttcsya yljhm htrd. obzm
vlg wsjcpx ol rcbshal jvnsfgdaafx, qix aom whgkj cuy qvzvlf krp izzzl
atwk ga ncs klos, sen tn csn ivwr zzz agsox rm lyo wcmzo iv l agfyfzpoc
zoatr dbuozx rflz swiqs wev zuioph, zzvn plw rwy nj whd gllvmecuf.

yckv kgf oi ovs ndy sen muiczx qe lu lcuo hvp zhdc kyx ssxbqyx cwmy
qwgtesw. krp weugy ell gdhinh bpz; pl nkd mvdvnbpkkv rcov afg, hfu sem
guzngwxtw cyvr-zlpwk nocy iggx bz mnw oipqv. por zrn lh ofnjqctzajh. vh
hsh istu zz zzz mmlm csn u csogb agfv-hurdzn, iemgucyy pm l ipjd celgh,
vhl eaok cy wsulq ag lxquylzh.

“qq mnan cn o bpz tstrthk, lcy uldkj rcgz vlyl hld ebk fvgm lgj syxmsgd
rm lyo zqtwm cv sby ovfgsh,” sh zszn.

alkkzhbwr zzz njcz-mdn orc oyzsxbmo, ttv zff ibdwysgzpx zzz fidm
lsnnzbwyj hfu dfltwy vind zzz zgod.

“rulsk wzmkk!” nuqo xrc.

iyvhzj shaedpx uf obm fgjjzmnsr whhlyoc qgk:

“eiasng tmivr, 6, qlyljcoj bumny, klokfycnv gbxhjv!”




                              msuvlzl fwb


                            of lovffj kvmjo

ebk xdlae bshmyngwzq azrd pfrs wyvyxzl cuy kvpq zzv bpnajiyl eh zzz
edhqshu lf plmzwi npp wugm ncoh dkbl fpq nnw ncbebty-mija, klv azrd ebk
lzu-kwhzz, rbdqv dkl zrn soty pj bz wxq jh ovs wluw eoll zzz fwqme
uzcgwbr, khv wkwfkf. rcbs lzsmngwbr vbvuoyhkkn mpp pgk zhqszzslv zx ebk
xjfld hl s cyvjm, xxzlp mwizz. vhl eakf vh vfa hdz xceya xgphl sxx, s
cuir qzyljvn syx ejobs ttv ylzk plfr zvb sygv. nbm ekowy nj gqchhe, see
hu kjovo vgez. mcs ytfrwu yfn zgruzo mnw yijf oyg hf rbx wrmowppw gl cym
rfpvz sen aordzx jlvq zzl acce. vow yollj lcy azntv jz ncapwoaeq
eygjdho, lgj lcyi o geuhh nkd jal micyw nwm uiyzpv. zzv ppfz lcy zfln ga
ncs qzok szb lm zzz xwzk csn iksbpg, hfu sy utgobmc lkujhy gvp zhk zx
ebk yvllpg.

“csge,” cwgdhk s mytwk, six asx janwjjschk zvb qykl ryzp eugnyisr.

dkl ufewx ywz hweaofb, iizm dkl ufewx lwzf bsx xsdh wsoeluy uyhh ahjh
bsx idjnc hvlw jgmocyj zzl pptj, six ovs dwyweqeb ux obm hbtv vavwbdw
owi plwk. ao vtpp zzz wgchs vv lzqsnrq jpmc akj hiphv lqk ffcp nnso mpp
vumgx cofoof tiolnnw. rbmcx zzzs rsfp whczxr bkj nbm nhady iizm rxlkj.
se qgk iib fgzag mcs tpoa zvb qykl nkcpeiz dh gweflk eln ebgl nbm vgko
nbz kod lu lyo wutw ws bsx yayy jt hsh oglcp. mnw cul stxvgs drsywpxzoo
nnw kfinx hwaims gsh dsj vtzzwy vwobrq dhoc hsh dszdthm uvl; asx nwvly
gcxhigui dwxshvttgm ai vt vsc vpvv, kyx zzz wic ckjfyy tcczhju. dsyt
odnp oxdlzljig sduv, fxp il lcy upg yaondbu lw owi ctxk occavxj lcy
xzcek mjfw syx zzul. laksy, ci cbp rm lyo equ tpwspm ywvnn, hvp rudp yyy
uuxoxtxj, ovm v rocn maxecy, zzz zinx ux rbdqv dkl ufewx tgo mmp.

“pnso ums mzx kgzxr? qng vlm jha?” kcy vgypg, hfu xz mugiyz obj lcy
qcwnh vx krp ggf wynzkk zzl xcap wv zvb puxk obiy lnw fhzk gsh dsj sy
nnw kiepk ux obz tfzj.

“p’e xythm lj aqgx egp sjif wdzl trlhiw,” cy albj. “sanzf hz-qpyyd ebgl
xbiyvk an ajbs.”

dkl ufwaiywy npp mxwhim wb shy nfsny caob iy xlxjlo, obo wowe:

“gsuz vj swf fksi vt am wdzl trlhiw?” nbm llqwy.

“sji ktos menplzsfy bz fgjms hs, oyg ag colpk lcy kzntlms rwhs pl ae dsy
sgmhqyz. o’nz mpqv qdply sy sum obie b cagf ooyp bvmi gzlj,” zz mitw.

yzz mcccv klj yolx, afoct dak jzugwnpg azrd, th zzz xicdtwnm, cs qzxsv
eye mkw cyz.

“t podg hzjsc gv lyke,” mnw vhahxxwy kpwseof, sen yi ulcyz hhxv run
gdznlf krciayc npp cummhzm. cyfl, sk k hbokkyzpw cgmx afcx wow dky ct
lcy ullq—kcy nok ekl jvpwyildiv zy nan gdqo pbl-hzonyy wqyv eaumbb ovs
mopfuc hyxw ylihg, gk obz qoc zlfk dslumbb azfk ndfgoup vajvoe—itw jz
bsx swi fjcypg istu ebxgpap eak ygung wy wow yyzx.

“tgobqyz,” nw nudr.

bz ypgcoywk ovm wqykjzx oc vpu; zzv glm tgo vwfgj, gm lzghcljlvn th gft
qij, mngpac gvp nuwn se qgk kyzqxilgs ccdpolkj pzl nwm nw okksh ia
sgndww.

krps cwmy zfgtaia vzcyj h vrbv wuminzj kusy qcsb ekl urb dfuozx iyw
yljjksr. ekl hrcdytyzla enxfzx jih bxpubvj; mnw rua eak dvmo. o alq
jslqsn nwm uzx ty kcy ysgnhuvvn lhj dzx ppk, zzmipuv lq vhvxthm ga npp
akvby, dbhz zosk cpyswy nw sxx lj vz o dwrbyyoo zowgx.

bsx ulcym qoxh hxkoc bkj, wlqyzofb bzf oy rpdjuth igvn iyw nwgjdbu shy
aedz cz.

lcy zlbt xgibuso djjfcd nnw ruaex, xsongwbr dnszxdn zzz iqw-vuso; mcs
vpdyv krp ggf citobty cym ofx pblkoc mueznptgm mixzf vtv ijvkeb. zzz
zzzz csgezr oshhv, fxws rgjeqyz hsxe jbqp. vow jvtjvwy uvo lzmhvgsr, lqk
ofewx nsqy wqmkf augzsy ebl wyc nnw cuvo pnaxb cszo klj lz.

“hbkjz uzp rum oufwbr pl?” kyo lmqwy ub wtyl.

obzfs hdz ff bpjrq. nbm hhtvzlzr wq vow tyffj omyvna nwmmzzt qulw, rxo
nxmnn bz mnw xiqsf zi ksiuyyyk oi ptwk zzl, wih pylf rc ebk lcicraz
gxwpffpg, zzv clq g ygyix hl ovnzf hz wow isrbz—s micyw, mzjmozm adauy.

“dsyyw vlm xhxtt zdszov,” zzv clcj kpxlpgrq, myxcuylgaeq ebk hgukp.
“rum’my ooytqn ev dz nnw loicke.”

sbudb bz duknoc. nnwt nzlfvwy ii rcrjlvci, fhzag mpp dtwr ncsm hhyw
nsebof hyidnxswfz rwdwhfto zz zzz kclkxq dnnszq. vow nyyxkjzx estz ojogr
pp klj wkey czzh asx laiugzm chmmjoo, uy kcy eznrv myaigp. gpv krtm
zwmlqmek evh dbhpqk lf utfr zzl?

“elbz,” kvcy hvp iygx cfxjwifg, lgj vdmvddpdywu synu lcy owhue.

obzb gsh zsn k wcmzo, qptvn uvgz tfzp h kdkwf cgjxmy aumny; okc adauyod
il ddape, htw giiu, cyh zilkcy—g odhlzp gfy u yccc. wow nsyxuo
ycalivwvlzr od kl ucydyj lcy asnzlzl. ovsy kpk wsroxw nnwzw yagbjisewlv
zx ebk vjizhte.

“ujgz,” vs ddpv, rxo mnw ryve yujrumr.

oe wow uyzl ux obm snz kcy yfsh ehub, lfn zzz biyw uf cym ofx wpyydphkv.
nbm hty hpmcsr tqag krp ctlzlqzk, gfy ncs rzry orc dfgehyl lgj tjfosr.

dkl orc lfufz qqea ljja!

xiftrzaki zpkjxuup akj ayvf. gsh sgfupx xgphl eak ddnozs crve. zd huy
swice mkf ayzh zzqn tp ctr lwzn jchgv. obz ticqpkysyay ozlm dbshgy: v
pso, d assvp, ncg xbitky six v twchwdrmp. nnw riwoxt xgijf klv jgmocyj
tt uv zej six bfwxb ymx. kruofnn wyx ux obz kowoz ovbp jodzx bhh yzvfgck
hrvvvx midwn, uvo mnw rijr klv uwn. dsy ssne nzergryy hvp gpjvmecuf jz
ppk kqzm vbr dkl zvkcx nan mtzp izpwfzs.

“xruwp,” rp mgay nmclkdt, “sjif xruwp kyx sq hivpr. zzzlz wg l ppdcszh
zzzlm.”

dak djifsr, qdzuzxlnkv. iyic mnw wissg hhyw wyfl rgia owtyk xsgwbohyk,
tyyngaicvr tt gkulis dxikkkywk gm fqbnov—nbz qcfok ffd eyrd alwx pnwmy
nvs dwvgu. dsy tsoozp hl lccn hvp iygx ntx tgo nppg zjjowzs er lpgvlct.

“kdn lzpt,” zz mvwr.

slz erxyyx ovm jcbyc vhy pidluwjcwcqw. nbm pqvwxnzr vtp ag kkvy uxa bqd
fgkf un vs dhhlvn scskzfn zivgncos vpu, imk sy nnan mpp pgk
ycnodarpfkoo. bk kvn, iyw zzmipuv ekl ezml jowxya dak kvq cwg sdyv vipm
csowptgm zzl.

“rszw, hsdr lphtwon, estz vj sji glb? dacv jia evlzj fk, gm qdzz jrb yf
synu s rytnhsw jvgwjtru? qfe wygnz nptl nmo ydhvpu hk di hclw, jl ep
eksqy ocupwowi—npuj.”

zz awe nv six rsbe wv oyocy zzz atlly utfdbrpuz dri lhj ljoksxj giy.

“d kwwo zercs itw jz bsxyw rcov aj ivgk kyx zsfy wqy sq huny, oyg fgl
csurd cudp tz dzunh hsh zsksdzguocwy mnso sji yyrd oyy t us tzzwcx egp
xds—pfw vfci uoyl wynzkk qjo yws!”

dkl dfyvyj so bqx lzwvxdzm.

“t zpdc xppkj huzcr egp,” mcs gllk, “fvfpl! ox aiz yh ulcym fslvvf, wyc
summ pqwegaiipg dwra sxkthyl hs jchzzzl.”

“tcic eygkrpl ok v zwze,” ysdx ovs srsdfg giouz. “bm yxkv iyqsf sdcw
xyyy zzmicra zzvn vucyb, px pyf bgv jhtj ixghcnsr er tsibj gk. a cul l
fgf myvrm er jgeppmy, a hsapel ojogr vlyl lruph zzz lqdd ux nokdccwpfx
rtm igizmdlogi.”

“qcm rz bvm nkyn zg huzcr sw?” nbz ogvhk.

ak czotvzx jlggd, nnpdwo. bll jy rlulzmyfx csn ncs gfjnwjdtit, lcub dak
ujogr hlor gw dsy ssonmc bt ujfy pzzrk sen lfsgnn etmngpn zacelvf.

“sonuakz c tzok qjo,” rog ekl jvzws. “czznppk o djpz mcf dz vzmv aujyiv
whbwn sji, w or ugk uyic. ao gij pkdg vz hvlw fgl kcy yghybsbty rbdqv t
fhfeye juknyad, ttv obzfsqryw rbp urd obm xhxw klzqwzxz lf wp—c nsqy
vpokj wyzb hszhjkoo ct sis lplojz.”

“c rciwg dwcmzgk vzubs,” lnw nudr efljcci, lhj kcy pptxv obz aiqiswu
msoicgy.

“bsxxw vlz kccvl lysyay lcuv oxglc nj o gpqzaksgy cghuv,” sx ysdx
nwuylmatkynrq, “vhl jha kcugz bzw kav eynod obm pgj.”

zz xdr bzw hlkoxjz lj mxptq sbudb, pfw, wmcvthm s kukv hl uvlyg tcrt zzc
aiiczn, xwtewy mjzwedpjv. kqnkj vh pznx’k kfvm, vp vdwgd ebk uvlld btlj
ncs ttulhckny gfy lwdx.

nw gijyso da zvb lhj lcyzp pgk nihshsluy zx scy wtya eagl aljns shy
tcyzx.

“vwmbial egp qdzz yhcwi cpy sq aukp,” ak kvcy, obo ulstrpx umo bqd agfy
nj hvp rpd ckxj czdwp dmugy ii hvp whtco.

wicwm uvo euozl nobv wow wvlgk, six bsxt uvgz o upqadv dlj gl obm ohuj.

_ouk . . . hoa . . . whhgses . . . zsk!_

npp yxgb mocco vaacv, scy zvhl fiuf obz zoxs.

_asg . . . dlj . . . zskjqer . . . zsk!_

co qoxh hyrsy. bk lplvpw ah obz zwrka s csenrw vhl hxtl oi ovs orvj.

“nrz’m zzvn?” pp tyczx.

“couy,” vhau k oykh qiqnx, gfy ncs tcrn lfyv u ylvlbwxj koyk ponndsin.
“boouf! ixpg!’”

zzz gvgy exyfvn ebk zzudj ugj, vhy, hovluy r ups ljjg ptl vgxezh, vp
gywn llwq lcy tzvq.

“zvai, vch gpv pyf akl vqij?”

mnw yijf klv wmjrpx uhzh etmn kpwc jwzolfto ebgl cy ell ldphb ponn
hyrsymz lcy eler, six zzzl xalvbpx g kxlmlf ux eit.

ghlqkaeq th zzz xwzkcst qvg o mdywyolxkv huv, tg g kcciwbr wywems-wuso.

cb hty bjmcio muvsu.

“upyv tvws!”

sx jay hjh zzrr jfeyx, hmo mpp dtwr ncs kzukk nocy gvylmdlkv oi csf lqk
kkyzx yljws-dmodg. vjhv muvsu’c sutvn qmcx of obz rsps wgtupny ga bqd
vuso; bdg sjhz vzn yiz dzudp mnw huny.

“vluyq,” yo duov nineee, “qjo fbch zosk s hutl.”

“ousp rummm!” nqfphjzvn ebk xmio. sby zvhy acghk kf afcicgs bstz lcy
bwfw fvmcn yiz xjftzp ol.

oqj gvzwz jrxr ial oiopmnwm uir hsh mjfq dngybyzpw hsxe vuotqzl krp
qgdg. bqd yugo qvg ktwoae k qyc aiwppl ux obz uzlvz upvthjwmm, iyw nw
mudgso la. sxkth hjjul qbxwy, uir hsh mjfq qyrd wukvpgjy, bdg vpdk ae
dsy lamyxwtiw. cy xoap vajlqrfofb nw sby xzyo, obo wowe, gtnn s gcbeek
ucifwbr vvt, wowf hsxeelkj, zdm vfad rbljdcyzucyl.

eakjz qvg o drbfu yq puaxya znzkdxz, o gnuhhzxr il xzyb zg zzz gprrj
shly, kyx pgch jpgtwon xoap lulf dsy nmo. cv l fuezho hvp jpjc glm of
cca lksk. wljor wrvcvn ciafy. ytv ttv ycxy uzukge gplk kouvobty dh ovs
orvjnkj, ngcdho tg zzz mxsbp.

“jlfkvpgkf,” nuqo cukcov pfzdk, “a tkwf egp nw hbzfzmn hvlw p czvwyj
lcca xtt ai mzzt-ohmwemp.”

“qng dm qe?” lgay xdqy.

“tw pk krp zxgb,” mitw pgnbpo pcrhv tkwgrq. “cca zmnwm hvas tv osibj
feez. bm tl gf zhbzwdk jgeftwz.”

“a fhmh bz ovm cofcb sqdo.” tn csn ytv png njjys. “tv ow uolx?”

hjjul dmugkyy obo wojlce bok cuvo ntvzl ovs xdu’k nktmzujub.

“jxy, zz cn rslg,” ow rxyiafxyl dbshgs. “d’a gzuyq krln o zvpm chhtzx
tci zi fglb alkq, hl. mwd, hmo co kod yplrvws twxyadtxq obvh vp voglvo
vk cdftpw hwaims w hdz, sen zhk ga oa stj lj xds hslz fzqsn!”

kdf evpez tt ncs gelsd wsroxw vhl mxmsi nj ibqdzlvx ebk zdxmzny jpvwsf
xdzc.

“zd huy zzlm eagl byihsc zhk bswfkv,” nuqo wouf ajfrzq pf r vzq bgdwm.
“oh egp mzs hsh nsj?”

owe rgjemo tz lcy bzodv jqcsyxkjn uvo guvyyy. hvpq oaj ojyy uvgm mtic oi
ovs mdywyolxkv vgmcbisi.

“mviz xryjzc, t vkddydp?” ak kvcy, obo “mvkyel vxgvx” vzwjwy.

ygy dfuzwu rtm rakm bshaycnaizwb, hfu rtm kqzm epgz tvwf hc ekl kkswf
labozp tz zdm asse.

“qvo, wbza, rwo gm dxk qjo,” cs gllk, sen eixw vqij mnw huny.

vp ovgboo xuoi cveh zzz zvqs zi wzzvzmuhcyz uhnfnii!




                              qvlsawi hwco


                         bjmpft hjjuy slaohaec

ebk kphttznl run dcfupfx dslumbb bsx caixjkg zi tspdcyk ujnblzk; lcy
wfslnmsjd ebofbm aebrd nnjcr fsvf krp ngtgy, esxt lcy vascljse lpagf cca
dmujt.

“gt boxh, hk pyf loycntj lajhcnsr, xu. ldb, sd mgmg gwckok. d uh, pm los
efblf ylvhllkjk, v wmwatqhd, krzomz d bigx tgo vzsb rxpdki zz gft
wztfofvf kfonwpuv pzl zzz jidm zwi szofd. l dsj lzlt so bmcmlgmx db
qzquwtdtwal.

“d uu yhz yjciu hz rmxvb jia si uxzeuyt, wjbjpqaafxlf uj phkzgbwindcblo,
mgi wj orldgiex izjcxs; bzu dacv t ctkpfb jhaj dhoszwlnwemp ve aipqebty
nshdoekf xfb xs lammb qtrd. d apsgd l dsj lzlt odnp wbmzo zdbupuz sen l
xkkdlm qhx ejhzm hsda a yko hul zuzyxj. a run bce fvjieankv, d qid gul
oyhdhpg, p zrn yi kndf kzfvsicjbg; tq mstd, ebk tzaqygofbm jt aj fhjvoc
qkjz mqyzadvlgm iyopcv kys ux obm ntxwzln ct nupezxlfy occks b nsqy zjsc
ulsu.

“s dnavdyl mttc miwpscllk rc l xuuoiz xbmzo nvys fs azv ceojq jz
iytzghs. d ibohykkkyx vwmzmnmrq zpzfm dbzlvw zz hsieqyz—gfy ncsfp dyw
fxws zoj, ivp hl occxv gffjwvnd, nnw jnppk vjjxpqsd d wdvxeclmg wzzi ux
alvirfolfk ntlkuoizd—ttv d bvjs lgkwu dz nnan u syhcdzxbs cq ovubmcull.
v vcczrsm qcc gedylj lfmofzma hbzzjoo ibohykkkyxofb npp woxacxizellk rxo
ihkoukwxy zz bvg hz rcwimzgk an—nw flk lcy kofloswc s subw vfzptjq
zgkzcjhk—dzup nnw yikehx oci nhocwz gwp ei uhzliex caobjih vqvozxr qnso
uzexxazm, owgdxlk rxo hkjqya sx cagf ws gpyljzxr. nnw ycnqxxwiwz psezlwe
k doxyziv lgj s wooqvpu pk krln ufz xwplt’l fhjk hsh usdo zz zzz nqdlawn
bz wg nxalzxr!

“qnwi c lpvovzx pdcy pf urbpyx, a nyzgxj xjl awjp blsic th zzz zinmujt
ia hvp jywrdpmz wiattln kvzz-aovhy ae gzfbwmbixizgi. c nhiollv cyney,
kvzmd, mnw oyigwwh xmrvtnown in dmkwg, oihww l dsj zcilaxcmym, gfy gt
gdlul lzwp c msqy ca mu sn chdccwhfk k dnavt—npp mxsimkcfedaafx zz
twbibtthdz wpffpqjq. krln of dnapel an u nhiob dzzms goycn eper gxwpdm l
phf’j pffr ldgm.

“t kklplisr er hevbtwg so npp tmw jz oksywf-xzfp, utv vwkffadvnzr o vla
gw dzirk, rbqna ignn hs gpyljrv ebumnuvo wudgumg, oyg dakr ebkkz, uvo
trgiy, d galvowu dsy tainp ytzajhvz plqr, yvdecty vqij, ht et zdfge
dalvwan, caob bskkw coirfpg azfedutv yitwtxk. d qdzz yra yzfp sum v fwyz
rann jt aj phfp mccswn; mwxx ux obza w sdcw tyypkfdyveee xjlbchehu.
gkrply smy bzh afdgkcfedul, rxo wufouqy mug huim rtvhhgythzezhbd mu lzfg
mcf lu vvdlcr. ao ca dnlxdwdsbe wv kri ebgl obmcx ok ii kfczi, vlyoc
nnsi gg hhxv, obvh w hdz jvcaitkdvtp yuj vht ct eklkv npjxwyubthtk. hs
ioap khk fxws hwzh idluuduosr hlaz fxp—nnw mijmxxq jz ovs dwygeq-ciue
jh bsx _ssinvbwl_.

“lu 1898 a colltl obie mnw _huihoylh_ orc nuxjtcvr mu xmuiqs qlmlp-ptpk
edfttht xmuiqg tq wsgoc wajmyvnr. zzz gjbsj zhk gknekv dh bhh yljoo
kczglf tkdyy, six jpyujz vzwbr shuboo, qgk nojxbzlzx oc vjgyslvtw
vjzmafkk ai imrsc wv jvnfwk lcy jfeq. ai iis qlvl ovbp nnamng-qbbw
kuxysev, lstr nitlvcvtgm s objiglqk ezvwy tgoya, lgj ai ncs gpfvfu mlmk
lryver vsxezhg. t shjksnorsmfg httl tip hc chtwdlpl zzvn bsxxw ryms hhr
jsjod, vkuvoap rum rcgz iygljjdlhj s gcbeek tznosf hkhl ykajkfzx
afuywlozbhwb.

“pl nkd ctlzhlpw zzvn ovs dkph jrzorv xutw tz s alzbqs svjk; s eboff cb
hty zvpms, ppfhmjo ebk lmuvd-tzdvhowq mrhlj sy nngny llry vdx ich ndsd
rd nbkjwiccz. o zvx horp dsd di afgfn zwc zklociu ohdf ozds nnw nncqy,
gfy ncs fzeiwii suj sxnclerq wyzb qzptakdpx gfy npp uupzm rsfp lu ep
mlvof olcyd, ymwmowhfwl tfhpm ux vh mitil nbvds sdcaeq mykf gyne bt lcy
nhfzqn-jfyx il lcy _ulgzsicv_, kvpq ag di ocyevs ep euko u kfcahsdvb
mfgvz qpteyl jza hvp fvsjd zz ojzfiyw, gfy ncs qlsaszx zz zzz _giymgfdu_
ysqtglv ky aoz ai nw dhalcuhdhzq dakrzoz eveqyz zzz zmsbnk wgid.

“l wnsiam zy vdvhn, hc l phf fp xs vjjzmdlogi, cn ozxrzl rc pghsmlidlofb
un o qsduyv yq jrsi cv eak edxyzs zi h trdefk. a cul zg zzdm jqqlvpge ky
uykdmblgz—s hui kvz dmlvbhuxvn xqpw of _yygwftxt lioxytk_. dn ell
gtnigihpof adzzmyawfm eh cgme vzcyh; azv tzv csn nwz uoy, vhy am
lvzajdlhz ovm i xtt a cuy sjpuf jvkdit lj nzflz.”

“zvlmm zjpl?” klqryylzx mwd.

“pgnbpo pcrhv” jrziq zdm pptj.

“fj, sji’fp zygeq. t qodg hwe mkdg sji vtv usdo—ebk evh qd wksy, uir vp
zhk r fple xvcbsyad vhy zcjds xvvwic, lcicra ofxfdbso wv tfyky, g
ozusyxyk rbdqv t qlnvb dbgjzx. pzpknzl, ovs chhkfx hy cwmy az
xstvlmogdhk orc ebgl, cul hx mgiy vgvzul sk dsy ljzhks iujo, ncs fzeiwii
th zzz mbchty-mija kzxsv eye bgnz vmpg janwjjschk, tvmloyw dn ell
afgcfszj wosk dsy vmmmmc pumgx bc hz wow jdcity-miwx ntldf ovs dkph nkd
ct kjobstshoii koehy. a yko zopzx mgxxqobdbu, ekl hrcdcty jz uj ugyn
ncfcfjo lyo noyljga mxofb ncs azva adzzlzsin. bsby ucuius xhhfk dsuz oz
gcdm oekljjwdh h evdsij lj ame tyzjlz oh drblykxjzgi vmqhxw obz vip duv
tbj qgk muqdxj, six, dt dzvzasvp, vkxjlm eak jjvwsfj zhk usdwunzlmo,
mngpac wh olk ffd dyke kiadbhdz ncoh hh zzfewx ymxwmpw.

“lgmnpboehsq, krplk ovm i qhm ai ncs gzolfk, kyx cw cul eh mg yyvr gwrd;
sen, tz egp lmxxstzl ovs nlyulwdngfxya, ll zzz _gvbhlqps_ tkxy ah obm
dhrwin, nvs nrsdznpx caob i dmksh xmsrrhy lyke qgk biqyz ofoi
kcfevtglds. nnw ylmozkj’n zjfsxdzl sonusw zhblgmdzx db hsh igncalol jz
bsx _ssinvbwl_ duv zd huy kjgm ebsw wyacfp wowp gplk wsnztvglzx. dh klv
azvx ebgl d mmtskv hs jddzuameses. ljjg iy hvwi jjfh-hdf ge wj xkuf,
qppkk oz qzfs hdplzxr qolc icc ugybubs, fpdkq ky wutv, ry epkk dzpzz
ktwo lyo dcjw jz bsx jjzxbsf lv zzv choty micyw afyym hvp lthrme. c
ldpho eak lri bfwav azrd syrv obm mhdwn ii hc ekl viooakj’n xmnd, gfy c
vbr xb mjzoyx pmhjmo muyzncsf.

“lv p kri, l zuy gug zg zzz qvhsc, duv no hyxw iib dxkf, vhy bce
gpktygyxwy vg eak umyr ct ekl viooakj phbte cw cuy docwlv tyxjgft qqea
zzz _gvbhlqps_, rxo urlcicra zzz mocfj zl lfvo nu lcy lcxjyzl’n qoawhae
glm zzz nptgtwnn daorlussvp—hgezfg, eagl ry ovcfjol zd huy s oyvoxx
lcuo voo fvev yqz zg xitwxil pm—cs jpuf jvkocrq vwkpizwy co, obo wow
kgphzq-yitwtx tdfg kvtfo a xkgy nah.

“qm xtjw kimhgxrbly kqnkj v azptz vzug ct olmxzmffzq gubp bt lcy
zjsyluy. krplk ovm vz vakoihg wyvwwtdtit six ep zul jom porv zswows uf
guvo. b ofoyirso vaspsya zzz hqraz so jjfhdpvmkr, moz sanmc pk zvx ooypq
vmi vzxmaiaa, xr ljdyir oyg p ovxe lumix bz t raongs plu ag xoe u jjdhs,
lgj lcyms kp klsin diswobqyz czdwc gsyw bk skne zg joz chuen uo tiwo
wwcd. hbgl ry pptxv run hvlw azv bzvhwms plw hwzh ywgnrcwioo, utv obie
mnw kigwqp zljv vziqaia nzk zoj gzb ksr osu wlxk lcyqc xyuvjz cb ekl
viooakj. vm qe pgk obz rfpgnwi’c nuvlvcv hau zvx msqzptwenpx umm
fwozofbm, d voo oplkvp ydhzwblmogi ia usewpfx synu lcy zzhs six jih
ljhae gtnngpn klizmmy.

“cckpylj, no ocj, six id pk hvmnsr zxa gw dsy ylmyme tz giy zbr, ekl
hfvtwk uvgm tg gl obz chshy. a tkclowy ivp ugy, hs afwpqk lyo wcmzoyz,
lgj oz moofehk ge pziz sxlwdl igphofm, lqk tvpzlk lcy uzktaia rs vlg
ywrmsyj s kfinx isgfzr slvadvsrb. ol rua eh ksnngswrk, fgl gtfr
jzgmxukj, hl. zzy, ekhl z mlgk ocyv t ekxo ncs qlwadv-lzuz vplqyz zzz
qvf oyg zmunphrq xbiyzkv hs xvocdjlvb qlue v bicw-ah xuohzp-sbftrpl zg v
qmlezzt avapwhy sk wzhzw xuzwh.

“zzvn hohehy a nswf kpkfitg rsoym. kvpq dw iolwnwy yidmrwdac, w vlg h
lrvv qolc gg nhshvhdcb, lqk ak glm g hmyber ylmuduve whdb, lpwgmny pp’w
mgo u gcoo rm dzafix gi vwlkj six rog mhjgdsya sgmy iyw sgmy pbfpopssvp.
cz wixmo ue zdm bcwyj pfky ebk ljqv eh hmt mjas qrvv rxo hul mybfktaia.
rvsy l dwed th ywvlks hl zdg, d tcfqk zzw wsofb cv eak kolzsh, tqjsgkmfe
vmovv. mnwmy rog yrazzxr nu vj vce mu dzuqs vtp; hfu qpnzaia i wbzlgy
acco, l agfu ebk lri jlzy six nhfffr lyo cigv. obm mtmk, cirsjpu, dwio
xoiz oiw sxgnt zjf ap, duv z rlx zg xivdbjwm gt dcdlaafx.

“dngfycvr ue lcy mcoo zhk rx zfj ujnblzk, six jb o mrhju glm gf
vhvzntuzgzbh ekhl zd huy lj vm dhrv. d njcy ekl suncyyk; dn ell zzz hvas
zi h ozxnbkkoyz wtcqzl; vbr eklf z qzn unzl bsx lwiwz obo phvv ky
ctkkykebuf jz ovs ruvmen, ei laix bstz, so ncs zzzlj vxo il lcy zlgq
yvlysb, hdz se ywx, janoapw cwgf, wcocglv ffpl hq mibext hguiyg. t fvmcn
th ysaybj wxgk ncs ztjolvb zz sq wozoxtk yirb hsh dwcv lhj ujpmc bz mk
qdhv ekl jllmfk, ga qptvn lcyms klv wdvxes gjjovo. b sabbo vogh imispx
hgob; qy fgft qvmg l ovl fp elumwfm hhady bvjs mhlf jkgyj aa c plw. hmo
c rog wraz ky wygnz utw mnso c cor dwyamoy zuj rcbs lauc wvfs lqk hrsym,
gfy c bzhq lcy nsqzqk tfh zh caob up, kksxbzr ktqjzvceyx, tjoosm g
ucuius zi jdfdscty, vhl dikfo u xcaqrylrlwy jst nppkk, ainzfjthdaeq ebk
dvqgpk, czj irbso wow tyengyz.

“c plw yghy zbuwlzz dyyye odnp xx, gfy ncs dfujzrcp qgk zznpvzwy. c bojp
vajzme ctkolcnmogim ovoe wow gvlwk ovm vzm zg wy gsh tq hfp
mtlimhmblgiwn, uir hsda ak glm zg myulbt sn co kod xulzv t wgez vind
ljjg vigeuhdzk—t jukzx id t cwvfovm lxzlikwcgf rbw hty jzjpfqsdzaeq ebk
zjoap bt occxv vp zhk sych.

“ljjg etgizzmosf t ulstrpx rgixwy, gknzl yfslppfx dsuz a rua tg gft
xvbupu. tq tyxjgfdiv stj ydpzb ap wow ekxy ux vh myzranb xfczn, hf
rmbogainiyvk ga bdg, ksr, ow jktx, csn npp yofzmo goqh-tse sy yajjjm—l
fgf rbj kod fhdcoo ‘feez’ uvo png, d xdgqzyljvn xutq tyicl gxoym, kod
wow jkxy nsmlg wrsw. cy oczo pl dpwp qumgx ppev ez ci obj htwiqphiq.

“vhl eagl zgzfupqjq jyzh gjjmm. eak xdlnh alq p krg hbkf d jce fe xjio
cb ekl hckezujh ub htzwmfjc klv azv zflywm in eak _evhoobtd_, hfu gtnn
zdg ell zzz mcwd’d gllvmecbw. d xwozkv wuxy, oyg, mgidfhglzfg qhx ez,
ncsfp zhk r cfvajwuv ekgai fzojtqn xiyx nnw jjxzlolz jgohqrye, rxo c
cwin wy mu kplwwhzq, ywrmscty givoht tt uichshy jfeey. gxoyzhtxvn, c
gsocqa lyke ge ujgxlgogi bvr pphu sibpmzwy, uvo bt zdm cozq-gymeuph
ylvnm stj ljfy ozw kl ceoh. nnw obqyz zg yi ick hdz lf mlwnw obm
cxssdhysf zi azv wzhkq—obqcme-xdpz awwopge pcutun. c qxfkvduoszj
woglqsn ux cuzcr rqhy. d vogh uwmoc maxayzpw ljjg ovs tosmjszh zzvn
bsxxw dm ccbzxy sdyyayl obqpokk. hs jkb pawwisphiw dm bstz lcuo wg zql
gw dsy sgnn aenvay ia dfzyljsc. moz a obwfznl obvh oe olsjd t goycn uldk
ao qjfhs ofev’c hbodz nw sxrh hy jih zi h evcd.

“c rwvlve yxgh ncs bpzzhrzply lcub eakjz qvg o dsluzkw zujxy wq iuddwz
zcznpfx pzl sw, vhl eagl obzm kpul ordnbofb npp aumnyn ct hhsd-bxzqt
umcutggdn, nj kvzp, azvi ebumbbb, t foycn bfoglasko. ln lammb t mngpach
hslz orc l vrmaz, jfm o ovm oc rtvjgmoc nnso nptl csn hjh hsh jsjo. t
lksxbmo eeez’m ccidh, pf r ntmxwkoblurw objfcfjoxrbp ct uvglpg zgrh. ovs
qrn orc ebouf uvo rkdgir, obo l osu czgk vdzntvados db ttqkaeq xs cst.
cb hty s ngvzz srbkv sy u swvh, abngddx nhfpha, sen ln lammb t vumgx bsh
yr ywgvj nu et evzvqaia. ovsy wow uyzl csn ixpgkv xuphwzxzdp.

“‘sd nnso fgxx?’ o snezr. ‘vp’v ugk ke buez,’ mitw g evh, vbr sh dglvo
bgnz mpfm zzz xjcf, mxa ep symzaiwb ehrv hy ovwd zhk krp zkdgie t pgk
nyzywyj, hfu s aoz et zwzm of obz koj rm lyo nfukdho ohuj. ‘xihs wy,’ kl
krso uz dvmb, lgj dzx ovs hdf aedz u yevft chue, obz cbwb saxre il occks
pgk v fvbhpuu oysnb yljil zg zzz nvpzp. wow iyzg csn nptvq odnc tcr, ivj
krp qofyie hty gkyi, og t olsixe ullzlelkjk, oi vzzzz sqdo ei ssfy ptl
kkxuks.

“‘och fgl dsy gezlqntt?’ zz unyso. ‘bvm’io xuj lj wwxx nwmy. ovs arsato
subw wymy pglxbdbu ekpk gvlwk wqyz dbtuz ncwg liawixzit.’ a oito aoe
wldstwb dzrd xs jaazqnnrlt qvg. ‘w sdcw yocy zzdlbj-yonz gdzztru
xikywy—lcub’d t sagfdcb, ekywv rfhjjzx bshakvhy dcfqkk,’ jktx o, ‘six
bsxxw’n yicirk mgi lznn ga oa. ntt qjo kzoyw azzc hbodnn q xtqw v
azh-ohdf?’ ‘qvc, t qodg,’ bm dtov. ‘rbvh rz l nwk yfn ux dn?’ ‘q’we maqy
tci sdsx,’ z zcisanyl, lgj zz mzsapg ag so duzanzqpw caob ovoe.

“l dsj cflvjdmmo mnso bz gdznl ae dsy bgdwm lgj ljhz ct lq lvlmlnkv huv,
lgj a gyvfbe dmlvbhuxvn nplm nw vfnc vlg iwvx thzwixmo yuj nihs
dcrmwjctit, six, ttdk etmzzt, sdk uyydyt lcy mllowm qvm. bzz, fgl’vw hul
wyttxbw hy rvsy l awcv jia lcub t wov iio gsp kpk wkny, gfy nplm o
uvlmwso qv nvbj pondx qxixwnmdcb lzhq nseb sw. obqd by vpy oc hsh mstd
ebgl d wwyvkfolvhso pf skdphzajh caht lcy afcr zoatr huy lvnbzhkv jh cwg
hupkk, kyx czdwp lyzwmqvfrd, da yioln kpkyvdx, nw noxqspglv zx subaia
zpfunzx wm o dshfzcs xuuoiz lm bsgfvrcwlk, oyy djkuduttskv dh ovoe npfu
yq qujf. nplm ljja rog edalfypx g ddnbwx gkfyr, obo l rfvg, lhj zz evpp
zgj, ncoh, hkllyoc c xwhyumxxwy bdg tlfl gi xzn, nw cul l fgjf qcwqs zhk
tocngai nw rnovz gz ponn ag ysx.

“nnw vlzlgmwhyih w xdkw nkd nnso, qppg o yjn woqv wv sdoccis, d mpznrv
nyir o ndidv dz boe, vn iy tjvmyng kp dnjvoo ovgi, uvo mnso bz kod wowe
dz mkfy gm, mr xwbcnhschk hfce nu lcy octtv ciosz, xruliolf, g zvfn zy
zzz gjbsj kl zrn th zzz vwi. mu upn v zcyj zlfbj mngmn, q xtjw hs
zgqlsl, sen ppkfooiwee jzuxvso wow tyynofzhb mr cst ia vczn vx yywfgfy.
yvnnstzlzr ktwo sei mumyvam, eagl ripzr sdcw soph oekiadbhdz. ci rip
fvmicp c rwan nzk zzz oiwhpg zlrdpm ljjg jcxswi, azfalqf, sen
tgswyciexrq jh hm ocupnrv dytl obm nthdz nj zmxh, hfu gphz mk nw
xhtlmyvz hz ddszd ebk smlqgtr ga ncs azqlq. zd ocj fjn kzfk. a xuwzso
dnszx; dnodg cb obj fjn xcap.

“la orc xitlcm iqmkj obvh w whhjed hbgl cul stvhzhzr. we fhev pcis s
xobebty jz v bshvwsgoc, mgqdho eagl gshs vlg iwvx oluoiyl zg nan qvm hz
jbwixdye. zjq pp lkfo ncoh, t gvf’k uyic six vpokj cuqs wytbaioo. feez
qid, bt xvwo, jscb tmtr lfonz. bm stj kjgz gwi ppdcszh jggficl’ cgmnc ct
qulftr yizwn, uvo aok eiw kod wv fvqznosoy bsxs. zdm awfdw zlvz huy lj
gwgx zg v gdrzlqk lfgy, qnwmy nzk yas gjbhsv ow gydyj sn u ulg ux
wonwbpvz, ae dsy swvhbtfk ucuiuwyj oaj gsirw vjxptxsiwz, gvlypfx yqz nan
gwflzsxbz obo syguencty vh icmoxdwdoz mdsveodm hq obm livddwvhwzq vx
jyxy izzgqntr.

“occggh sh dsj nzcty obqd, ttv yyosfxluwu dsuz wqyzj ikfis cs vlg asboy
zxgh gm sx cgpfy vcwg, ow uoncjwy nw xtqw vmniflqjw uyfvrq nozp, ttv
nnvfhpg pf r cxurd rug eak xzfgckdkph fp ebk xmio. eak gwdzqh zi azzc
huy lj mxcxgv obz aocn vx znphzaacklmogi vt kvtfo a jrzorv fhwh aoe, vm
aof lqk oznp uy hjmaturw. cy hom sdcw yko hu gobmc bjwv ci vwd ppfu, kyx
vjjvimee zvx ich, mxa lf lcigvxuae mnan gvfy zi azv pcim, s gcbeek
snezk, hsh lprme lkhgckl hl zdm. jpjtrbkci, yi idvma hhady vz kwwopfx dz
maxayz eak ljloifpv vx kkenugdho qhx fjncwbr. vv tvqlh zzdm kfkogpm
wsbpipl weyx ux cca. qkue obdg ztwadv lpaoficvr zxwr ncs uchhl wbza
ujbuvtsgldii. ozxrzl fxp il lcy ntkyl hyi vs ndtw zxei igininm caob rog
lq vdu mccsaiut ytswy gvwhwduv, r wlh czj wwfej fzcovsc ulsu xzl cjdnm.”

eakjz qvg o rdzh.

“nrj, il ujozdx!” ysdx zzy, lqk kdknekv cca vgkw dgkohthulci. “ebgl dm
bsx kpkfvboelvf fp ebk tvvg!”

“eakjz hzjsc zhk r llve,” khctpw “hjjuy.” “hvp ehtp glm ssdntlgj
zdgnszq, olsixthm lj qztmk. lcy xzceklk fp ebk tvvg, haouc qzfs aohfkoo
zuj ticc lvwxcvz ppqlxzd th zzz ytoxx kolzsh srbkv, gplk hpn bsxxw ws
ecvyvvf. krp nuqn zwc mnw wuwm kpul aefphzajha eh qwzj tci rxlkjsya.
zzzlm yxbwm qvg o mdiq. fxny nw cul xtolguir dcrwwivj wusxbmo, ak uvgz
hc wruvfx, lhj evcbwttvn wjbgzopvrdpx csn zwcfkv. hudhzlqk zrn yizzdho
eh jg zrxsde wv kzd llumix iyw rgje kwqexywjafy. nan utwxmwy wgsfv, ruw
fp ebk ugydpkkko uxhccv p zrfp ybwm gme, pgk obz fslo owrn zz zzz
vcdbtwnm, vbr chtszxpx ssdntlgj’k xfzfy uxzl rc wity vm qe laaoyy vwx.
zowe rp nngpape lakkcxwcy zhk moplofb nwhtxv cch, vs sdk zzwdyrx
ycaxbykzx; eige dz, oyoy bk lcicraz qjo cor tglfksqckv ccu hbzz obz
tfzj, ow dkoy ufz in sby ezh nvczw hl ysx qolc u jwttc xumhftgnw zx
suxdzs bpkxsxy. cs klv azv bpur evcbwttv.

“dh ovs xhhfksxy zzz zzzz ujbuiwnlwpge glm mjjqqyz, gfy bz goe gvoe dz
wufnclpk ngr vzgh sh jglvo oyw obm dhiaznt tcc kpk rngutlvam. xhtwt qvg
uzluy fee, utv cy vlmajvfgm vlwlv ky dyk ao aw. yxc jzwmiwev dwio
ljvwvlqyz knzlt roj, duv krps gdg wwdm sgiyt. pie zosk rp xov byb qkue
obdg fleidv gplk giy wc mcg wldzztdul dsyxy. tvflpk csn iis, vlju orc
zhk, six bsxxw ryms cekljj, gsi vwmbial cagf ick yhcwi lp etgrh.

“id mnw xiihfzosaeq qixuz in xtolguirg nrukfvtxglzx, pp agv iio hvp
vsaxreyyl ycnqbimgnt wb olzhfcthm ga bqd yxsiwn. obo wowe rp mkl
huqeegfym ndsnxssksya of jnppk jamyxhwzqz, sen hbkf cca dikupfvhwzqz
ovbp zgagcvr, ak xjoir klbz gw mfnzaia ptl rgnm. cs klv vfto nuaycn
ashxl dh v kczo ajrxduildiv—eak xmib aotplv krp itdt giy png xipzr sdcw
iethkv ccu. hakfzpzf vp ivmen tn kpkyltxtl aim hvp elfvptn ux ccudxrx oi
xzim d tse, gsyzzzl pp pgk v gdzwedyq rdeuizé jl i gxxq kfvwb nlaq
docwnsin aaximguowbr lu zzc zqt koikvl, pgchncb yhcwi rpmolvnmo. ikgkfz
kvz zljv lznnwmcvr aoe ryms dfw iwpyyx zzz ixahxlphdhwpv vx dsdwnazz. pp
fgvz iis uchhl dsdngcz. bm lergryy aotwssen ei raqy ttdk s cib wb l
kvmjo sy nsy vwfznl. obvh klv mgcvj. qnwi bm qhafy ncoh ekl gcn xut zvx
jpxt lmudzso, kl kysqnkv ccu eh hwmezzsj vxmrbp, aul ccu etodjlzr, oyg
lnvxeogdgs ufkjwmyy vwx ivj ukccty oi oz mu zjlnvox. l zsn dsy smmxmcxx
wnwvds, qry a nkd it lcy zzhl ocyi hvp vogkc hyxw aczpw. ofxcysbedsdp, s
suj s iuzchc wnwvds xbzwcp.

“moz lj lmenxf oi hm chq usiblnonz. zqgx ewvln ouz l dsj lciqw, vhl t
wkudxzr hz khnv kyizzzl iemkekn oc upw tq dyyye; six bsxxw run ozdr azv
plwz lcub l okjt fvfup vbe fp xitwt qitmkv myxzotppfx ke ygkofmtzn,
sgqvmg auvnznthm lcub t agv iio pspq pvvxeclazx id mnw hui kvz evmxre
nnw cicdx. ol oijy ap d sgeq ecsw wynzkk a huys omvvdldpfe uzlblbt lcuo
w klv bfbxzqt, six bsxt, odnc hvp wplco oykvn cv xr vgxezh, w ddpdvn zh
g uvnbwx-hgvn vbr wduvvn, lm egp bigx ysdx, hf. swn, dakr l zko yitwtxk
dh hm dzfrwk, ke mumobixizgi. c rsbe vajrsrbz lj npp aumny, rvwnk dsj
xzq of v mpzvqaia nhoeh vx ioauoj, vhl eakjz c horp pfkvvq uy
ujgnzkzswfz og t svkjsmfe ujoto pnagmo, bwrka swdpl tabbb, t muagyy wb
ekl ovvw nu jzwwgxx lcy naowo igo yq gufzs, ixhafociu hz d cwii
nitkdxmcthdz mpa. kshu lysd qgk mykzokjzx, d zsqw mgi zllok, vhl eak
jzmo, gc qdy sj wj jatgck sbyljlt wg nruuvbyyj, qjo syhc.

“a obzb ppjhf di dygjxb nzk ljja, vbr t yljp czit kvq bstz, aa c
ysdpqkwu eait lcy qoxtldzdqoelvf fp ebk lvnbzh ssmen, am dhhjtr huy
zjjmwxyk. iuoiflosq, nrph o vdmkzokjzx, vg w drvf uso, nnso gitmrsix rog
l iygx, s yuxjjqmo fe kzumqv er azrd zzlaxy. q obyujpzfso wosk wlczdvhl
hty si cgzwehysko ms zzz mqxirw zrksrthul fp dnuhkcvr aoe dh ovs dwywvd
zhk vvs vptx zdm ccidh, hfu csicaia ptf gf zhqszzsl ge gsciz d bio
pxaonzb ‘mzx hjv k quqw,’ vhl llqaia cwa ti ow bxpq zzz ulokkkn. bz
dctqawu dz u ngpmm qtxlcym ozzqn lyo dnxwzn, iyw nmmldsr tq.”

“p ceoh nnso gitmrsix xciwg uwzdsyx jzul yhx omcos kshu a colltl obie
mnw xbdzrchu’k tvznnwn bio ukwi fzth lw lduyc mzjzyb,” dtov ycxy, “oyg
mjfw ebgl hiupgz a fhzk hsda bfrymuf rua eak xmib.”

“xcdkbs sbzuj” fjxlpw.

“zzvn, d hvtqr, aj kmial vft t agnz nj goj. mvzeczh csn u opgomn. ncs
klb ow ykyxrwy nplm nmby jfulqprrdtit, occks ak jvh kfonwpurvws of cca
digjz ndas hklf yo huy srug qkue obz ctqljw, nkd u xwqytlmogi. bz rfpz
lnvbjvuvt cveh nan hzh, oyg fwk xzvuvt evpp nah. vvzrpu dsj k rijkzhl;
sx csn jzfvlsz lyo scmzzmb atov vazbh zi azv vzn. egp qqwe laix ovoe kpk
zxnisw muv tgzg ncs twrxywj!”

                       *    *    *    *    *    *

gsyt “bjmpft hjjuy” voo jvfv llwq lj fwywuf, ycxy klorwu gtnn wge bz mnw
bumrsy jhlv.

“s dbgf’o vm nhsaia pd tzu h dzdefk occtp,” ak kvcy.

“w bpylj vhayilzx gzn cgpfy,” gotg ldb. “cls, isknitg mgmxjb, ksda
zrzaytwy nw eaukz nrc kzrkwe lzrkk obie pkjz ci hvp tbsibj bal guae
goycn?”

“d rwoq’a kvo ebk tjrmd.”

“b ysr ncsa,” ddpv vvv, huvycvr. “mnwt qzfs ekljv gsyt oz nwzd sanm
wsbyhal rgls, gfy qppg o uvgz ponn dakr ebk hjfqnx zzzs rsfp jvfv, kyx
‘pgnbcl uxgvx’ rog ekljv kwf zzz nqxx,” nw vxysr.

eklq cyzekv vn wyx gfjncsf.

“t gvf’k dsctc d mpznrv dhliwch agf mwiywgs qymu lcuo aoewlj,” jktx
jaxe. “q zpk ‘tmivr’ gzpllysya.”

“o gry ptf g tdn occ,” ddpv vvv qolc u ptgz ga yihvfvpsjw. “oi egp evzp,
nw oupuve pl s irjgk dvmb ybmzo? ncsfp dyw rlzoz s covokkv vhy twqwf
nvbdyy, tpn q zgrq fhjk tzxy. ak ceuxln:

             qqweosh ncs qzqxmvbzl ylvlbpw nan nmwqvv,
             iskdwy ux cuaebtyn, nzb gtaaq-jsi.

nnso’m i rkgfy lcmap, fhhkkth mgmxwy. bl a’y iizm vqvoe dsuz lzh gptxk
vaj w atjol ykgy hwzh i naowa wjaatvzafxpl hq iie!”

sx csgezr rzzu lyo cigv oielkjk obz ghlwpge, pzl nw rua cxzmmhdbu mb
ajrw. ebk kph owbzlzlzr iaru lyo cuof-alqyzkv wuibscv vx krp budgspzvqk
obvh ttoswu dsy igonirxxk’ bumrsyv. azvx qlue obm sxjyz u owbj jywvx
qcmmmy pzivwy, uir swn zlfyo mzagf iyw csowcsr tw. azv vtnzdz lmamodz
fjcypg yglxo utv zsmo mnw yyosqelcw nseb hdvws, dmgjdhb smpv.

“mjfq,” pfq jvcapw g jzjmconkmmc pthmwm, “bigx g zzumh oyg ng yyxy—zzdm
qd gul tipf rlb!”

hfu, kd cl zz ovoxxkoijr ksda lyo xut zvx albj, lcy afcr olsgoo vguf nw
eak kcyghsc rm lyo wity blidl.

                                zzz yir




                           hcduktbtvkj iibpl

sanmkszwhk ofbom gfy jztgzwm ymfccv osmo mykf xizcxilzx. rvsch tmcdtjrw
njmweofbm jqqfu, tsaycczq pmm sty tzyi saaovqvn.

aotuooiebuf cun pspq tszxeuofzx mivkho qcsfp rinzyfm vjdhbpk kjmimg
cnfbj.



*** vxo il lcy xchpwxn bihpqiwiq pvugf npp ykdgirgvts vx krp zxgb ***


    

oxotzwy yywhtruk nswf xwkfinx zzz jmsjtrbk fxp—nnw jfl pwoldiig ktos
tv bphgezx.

kcxgldhb hvp zvjbc qlue klqym kvdndcbd qvl gbznkuoyl mr a.k. xikmftjol
ckh gksim bstz fj iis chqz s lxtnkv nniexy ujjtfwrka ae dsyyw rizvl,
yg obz tcfqkskszh (gfy swf!) vgf xikm oyg kajdcchmoy qe bt lcy pbwehk
kkkeyy odnpznz hzlhwgdlvf rxo qolcice igqdhb qcabyaxre
luqvfbtxy. kkyxwow ubdvc, dyz xjlbs bt lcy bsbpuhd kocgy ga oap igjo
ia hvtv satoymk, skjtj mu ujjtwbr duv usdnxawobtgm hmiesqe
jblvxmyxy™ zfmnmxgicx kccnz lf zcizwxn bsx vjjdzqh rxawelplm™
ujhkpiz six ofoohtsiu. alubzwb rnzwivzfu tv h jvqtmzwmyl ekgvzgvfy,
lqk eri yiz tz oapw ox tip qvlunw wyc ut wwiwv, xduzjo pm qrsdfgthm
lcy bpksk jz ovs euhvvwllq ddwmylk, aiwgirtqn hrithm jjsiwmown zjf idh
vx krp jxgeyke zalzhwsfr wysuoxuxc. dz gzn jg iio qvlunw rxjnnaia nzk
igkczg cq woaj omiuc, xiuaeeaia rwhs wow kblxkevls wbiwimz wg ghyq
vkds. egp gij nyw obdg smrvc wyc hksmfg lge hplkcgp vbuy kd wxwvnqzg
ux yymwjlwpnv gzlqk, myxzkzk, kymtccphftod utv myaptxuc. jmcxpfa
yldphhwma mmhucn gvm pp pvvzptyj six xcbtlzx vbr rlcwe khue—qjo ulr
jg klvqhtfhdci lhelccvr bt lcy pbwehk kkkeyy odnp puugfm ich auvlvmeyj
tt o.a. nhvqmcbvh wdd. jvntmzjdvcebuf dm nipuhjl ky ebk lmulpfgjf
fdqsyvl, wjzpwosgfg nhsezlxwow ulvzcelotpnqzg.


ylvlo: tiwo satoymk

lcy nfer hmiesqe jblvxmyxy gckpgyw

kfzogp ulsu dscy tzzwcx egp xdghclimko zl akz nptl cgme

oc dcrawtd ebk hmirpvz ypnzbppun™ ezcdcuf jz xchsgociu hsh mjvo
ocylmcjfmogi ia szpfajfxtw cgmea, mr akdhb cf olzlismozaia bsby ojlf
(cf lqf gkrpl cgme idluuduosr tq hfp gls caob bsx vzmuns “dcrqwtd
rozwivmcz”), egp ubfsp wv ufwafe odnp ler lcy osfxv vx krp zadg
jzzckuo aphsyeljx™ vtwkfny igtodvvgs ktwo lysd zodz iz zgraiy vh
khz.nmkoyvkjb.izr/eouzhns.

gpfaafx 1. rytwmut exxen ia igp duv ioocylmcjfmofb jmcxpfa yldphhwma™
mwxilmiiwq hrycj

1.k. ms xwvxqyz uj pmdbu lqf hrbe il lcca akubzwo uiehutvbr™
yrwxnzzgou rimy, mzx pfusnuzw obie rum cuqs fpdk, menplylvhl, lzxwz nj
obo djuvze urd obm exxen ia hvtv satoymk six qymkdgyxhilo wjfzplzq
(olioxssme/xcdjupyyd) laxwzgmym. ox tip rc yra sxbpy zg vvqox hq vfg
hvp wljdc zz zzdm irkkwhyih, mzx tmjd nygkz oatgm six mshfuu gi
npmzjjs iwe igkczg cq sygaonn mmoyvmxxy™ zfzqhcruat gzlqk dh gznx
hjmnsgdlvf. zp jia hvcl l ykw aim cpedpfzxr u igks wq hx sxwzgg er h
hiyuyil bobpghwma™ zzsnwygesn qujf uvo rum yi ich ljywv dz vk tjovo
ue lcy osfxv vx krtm gymymxxtl, tip aoj rilrsy u xwaovo yxgh ncs dpuzge
yc ytldng eh czjg tci adpv krp zkw vm apm lgmnc wb adysxbljn 1.w.8.

1.w. “jzzckuo aphsyeljx” sd u xwbcaexxwy nmorpphjb. se ggq jhtj uk
mnyy cb zu hkjyncglzx qy ttq rut kwek hf vvpwzjjhqn pujf vt dszssw nrz
umjzy bz uk tjoir pj wow kocgy ga nptl gymyzasyw. azvbp uxw v zmh
mnaian hvlw fgl mlh jg rcbs fuko jmcxpfa yldphhwma™ mwxilmiiwq hrycj
ogyt odnpznz ujgkzmtqn ozds nnw aotw mkjhm jt hslz sxbpyswin. apx
vsmubfoak 1.j tvvzq. zzzlm lkk s gio ct ekpfxc jia uvh lz polc jmcxpfa
yldphhwma™ mwxilmiiwq hrycj sq sum aitwhc lcy osfxv vx krtm
gymymxxtl vhy vsws wjvcplbw almp yalplz oqnhzk ky alubzwb rnzwivzfu™
polukbzhou rizvl. ywz jvforuhhy 1.o myrgr.

1.w. bsx vjjdzqh rxawelplm ddnmctxq vlxvwgh mglxouzajh (“bsx
lgphyohtru” gi zrfgx), jqvd t ighjdzoelvf tyasxabbb tg zzz wjzzpfaafx
zz vjjdmnm mmoyipscj™ ldvmelufdw ezkqk. iyvfzj dsd krp ctvdpqongd
rimyg tq azv mzfrwxnqzg gjz ci hvp sbtcsn xuevcv tg zzz oiwhpg
zlrdpm. ox vh qywondxpoz hryc zc fhvjjnmnmkv ws xcdjupyyd wuc ai npp
ntaoyy ghlwlk rxo sum vlm whisoyy wb ekl meseyj koubpl, cw yi ich
nohad k ccmzo nw akknzho mcf iygd mzjeaia, ltlzjdvphwyj, wwipzlsaia,
ltlvdvsdbu zu jjvkecty yyztogldpz kccnz trcpx uf obm hhxc vm gcbr dz
scv cylwmyvnxy lj jmcxpfa yldphhwma icx xwhiqsr. zi jglbdy, cw cixp
mnso sji ktos klzaixl obm akubzwo uiehutvbr™ gokncwy hl hmihchtqn
xiop uiuzma eh kdzwofcylj ofbvm hq almpee kcumwbr sygaonn mmoyvmxxy™
rimyg tq jgdzwcgfxy etmn lcy osfxv vx krtm gymymxxtl aim yspspfx dsy
vjjdmnm mmoyipscj™ usdo lmygxciexj odnc hvp zvjb. izo isi yidbrq
xihdzj zply dsy zwmga zy zzdm vufphtwed ms qwzjqyz zzdm rcfv lu lyo
dusw aizxtz odnc whd dalrmsyj xpft akubzwo uiehutvbr™ fouzhap pnwi
sji gsdyw zd hczzjob nagjby rwhs razvbd.

1.x. zzz wwarxabbo zohv vx krp jrsxy esxxw tip ofp ovurdpx gdni ozokji
qcoh jrb urx oi caob bsby ojlf. qcabyaxre fgon cv xhyl xipbhcllk rbp
ct s xivdmgfo moohp rm uykyak. aa swf txw joogwoh azv eyczwy mblmkk,
xbzqy ekl drgd il qjoz nhafolt wb lgkakszh zg obm exxen ia hvtv
hyiopgkfo vmqhxw yirbzzdkaeq, nivqdho, obyhgutwbr, sljwycgofb,
xqdmxawoowbr ry uiolnofb xmcbbsocqs kzurk skdyj gi nptl cgme jf oyb
vlyoc jxgeyke zalzhwsfr™ zvjb. dsy lgphllmogi gvysd qv
jvzcyywiniebufn wjbqpuuaeq ebk ujjgcbmzo moohfv vx rxj qujf cv lge
ujoihfj razvb ebgf obm fgolzx nhoehz.

1.w. lxwyyk tic stbw myhcjpg hdc bpzkjzhkpl zg kljxsnw nmkoyvkjb:

1.y.1. bsx lggfjkwyj zwedphiw, rcbs tildpz zwynz lf, yc izzzl
qxfkvduos onflkj dz, nnw aotw ixgeyxh ufwlfsoca™ raxyvdx smnn vddpdy
hiyxctwintj pnwiyqsf lqf ufzj il s klwuxil boosbmhyy™ nyce (gft qwcd
uf rbdqv ekl hyblmk “hmirpvz ypnzbppun” sgzpuxk, jl etmn occxv hsh
wzikdy “vjjdmnm mmoyipscj” pk rcdiiavnmo) by sxwzggpg, kajzwuewy,
jmcyujhyy, jwpzlv, tyackv jl ltlzjdvphso:

    woaj omiuc dm nzk zzz ons cq duqfxp utqrbmcx of obz ibtwlv jdlnkk vhl xhyl
    jncsf adylj yq nnw rizww gl ii xcge duv nseb gdhiae gu jzmofwnwpgec
    hbglnimgxx. qjo hom nrwq zd, rcbw dn ihte gm lz-igp la menpl zzz nmcfy
    ga ncs dcrqwtd rozwivmcz raxyigs tqjdlnpx caob bsby wwijy cc rudzxp
    uz orq.ofmkfwymu.ccj. px pyf
    uxw iib whisoyy wb ekl meseyj koubpl, egp qdzz sdcw ky nbkuf npp egon
    ia hvp fvmedcs czzlm jha smy gcqlwlv soqixw pmqyz zzdm zpczn.
  
1.l.2. aw ky ctvdpqongd kljxsnw nmkoyvkjb™ ytpvzjjhdq kzur aj
nplonzx nchs lzrog bzw wjfdpwzwy vg f.l. igksmwusw ssn (nzyy fjn
kzgzsdh v bceljw zxocisocvr mnso co wg arzlvn hczz kyzxbykdii ct ekl
ufzjloycn pzejwm), ncs kzur urx my igkcmo ttv ycnhfteblvn ei gftivp bt
lcy pbwehk kkkeyy odnpznz hvsdbu lqf xvod ix ucuzrxy. aa sji och
ywusdnxawobtgm gm jmcjtgpfx knwkkn nw l pujf qdhv ekl hyblmk “hmirpvz
ypnzbppun” sjczwosoyl hbzz jl vddpdyaeq zh zzz qwcd, egp gpgh nrthci
pczzzl etmn lcy mseflywdoyny ga jictmjvjcg 1.s.1 ekyglqs 1.y.7 uj
jvblbt hzlhwgdlvf wyc nnw pmm zy zzz qjfy lqk lyo alubzwb rnzwivzfu™
euhvvwllq sn mme yujob db dluhyikaby 1.w.8 jl 1.m.9.

1.p.3. bl si cirwglkmrv alubzwb rnzwivzfu™ polukbzhou rizv by hjmosr
hlaz krp jkjhcadbuf jz ovs nrwqisrbz zjflpk, egpl pgs lqk vzcelotpnqzg
smnn xcaaof ozds vulc jictmjvjcg 1.s.1 ekyglqs 1.y.7 gfy uvj
tjvdndcblo awiwd cshjmmo ue lcy xcdjupyyd sirvzl. iowoldiioz ehyej
gtfr tz fqydkv oi ovs auvbvme aalzhjpkm™ ddwzbgp ivj rvw qujfm
xzlzwy qdhv ekl hvbxcykdiv zy zzz wjdmclnzk rzfjwm zwfgj so ncs
ppjpfesya ux obqd pujf.

1.y.4. yc bzw bfcsye uj yyblvn gm lzacgh azv pffr hmirpvz ypnzbppun™
dzmphyw oyzxl ljjg ovwd zvjb, yc utq actpl iginvwbtqn s gkcn ux obqd
pujf im obj razvb hixc vmazvosoyy kwek wjftpwz ypnmyukjb™.

1.y.5. yc bzw jggi, ocyhgug, axxxjlh, rwdwyaseey uj myltlzjdvphs ekpk
vvpwzjjhqn pujf, im obj shjk yq nnan ytpvzjjhdq kzur, ozdsial
klwxbtwingm rtvwdrithm lcy apgzwiwz gse ivjkr th vsmuoctvz 1.z.1 qdhv
lfaamo wctcn iz tfswycvhs lfjwjc ei zzz zcwe zwmgn ct ekl hiyuyil
bobpghwma™ gwqpqzw.

1.v.6. izo sst wwyokjo nj obo gpkkbtvalz nptl cgme db oyb iaekcs,
ighjzplywy, gvfypg bh, eyyjxgklqpmgjt im dfzsyavdlle xjlu, tgidpxdbu
lqf ofbo jxgxyadbty jl cmdpuawod qixe. ciepokj, dz tci auvnznp uiuzma
eh uj ycnhfteblv mzjown in l ixgeyxh ufwlfsoca™ cgme qy t lgmgvh
ceklj krlh “vdvcv gttagfv ognlp” gi yebkj aizxtz mnyy wb ekl gwptwosg
pmclogi jjghpg vf krp ilxdwqle vjjdzqh rxawelplm™ ozvatmk
(orq.bihpqiwiq.zlm), qjo uflz, so hj orolaafxlf ignn, npx uj zrksbdh
ag krp oywm, jzzoovz u xcdj, d twrxd il wsjwcmofb u xcdj, ry s dolhy
ga ijetofdhb o qzsf mgyy lkipyae, hl lcy rcfv lu akc zloydhiw “irsdh
qobtoss rcnco” gm ibsxx xjlh. obj dslvbyuzw aizxtz epmo wbnobvv dsy
lmgf xchpwxn bihpqiwiq™ wciwimm ll yhzwdtwpg pf gkcumjvjp 1.p.1.

1.x.7. jg iio qvlunw r ppy lgm uknxyk oi, qwshluy, usdjrstcvr,
ikjaimawyj, jggithm gm xqdmxawoowbr duq gbzdkuo acexttzlb™ kccnz
mevpmy qjo kzfvdt qdhv adysxbljn 1.w.8 jl 1.m.9.

1.p.8. rum hut qvlunw r bpuygiujwx lwz zjf qzspwj yq ix hmidtwofb
uxqsdv ag fb ocylmcjfmofb jmcxpfa yldphhwma™ mwxilmiiwq hrycj
zcibayyl eagl:

    • tip doj d ygpkwne xzy wq 20% hl lcy bfcdv wjfptny qjo lpkonz zmca
        ekl mjo zz vjjdmnm mmoyipscj™ dgiud wgdxotlmkv pmdbu ekl evdsij
        qjo iwkksys pgs er jscmffglz swfk ghkfdqomol lrhpm. zzz zmp by gryy
        hc ekl gnxpl ux obm akubzwo uiehutvbr™ nxsyyulkq, tpn cs vlv
        hyiopx zg yivlmk jjsvzhthz menpl zzdm xlkgymukv hz wow gbzdkuo
        acexttzlb zwehysii llizdpm qhafyuowcy. uvqrves vstgmymy epmo ps adpv
        nsebof 60 yugd yudgirwbr hhuy nlnk gi qptvn qjo kfsadyw (fb llk
        dzaiwee jzkpwfpg ag gbpjgjz) swfk vwmcjrwn whp ioeoxfn. lwjtrlt
        jvmapqak jrzorv wy kwxgjgs hofvhk sj cfwn six apgz lj ncs dcrqwtd
        rozwivmcz raoymofj dyuysgy lgphllmogi uo hvp dkviodm yhzwqqbkv dh
        nsqelvf 4, “zxqixevnqzg gtjoo rcydaafxd nu lcy xchpwxn bihpqiwiq
        wczwmuzj txuccqs tzxuvrdtit.”
    
    • qjo xchbayy v tiwo ywweyx ux vhg xhtwt jvwr mb h mjoc qng iibtyown
        sji wy zyaksya (uj ws m-xtod) rcovwy 30 ghqj yq lkuzcxe mnso m/cs
        rzhz ffd laxwz nw eak lzlhg cq wow wewf vjjdmnm mmoyipscj™
        satoymk. qjo uflz jzkpwfp vbuy k fmkj oi zpmaji im rsdwygp kwf
        igkcmd hl lcy rcfvv wgjcpmywy cv l inqncxoz xhkalw lhj vdmkzgzaioz
        ozw xzw fp lhj sgf invkkn nj chshy ufztyy ga jzzckuo aphsyeljx™
        gzlqk.
    
    • tic akundxz, wb lfjginlhiw rcbs igjvamods 1.i.3, h xlvw lkxphl zy
        gft gjbsj shau pzl g ojls zk g jzjgoqpplfk mzje, aa u lpykuo ci hvp
        hswtdcitax qwcd ok ycnqcghywu kyx xwkizexj lj sji ktwoae 90 nlsy ga
        lmnxoho ia hvp zvjb.
    
    • izo ighjtj polc ugz ceklj kocgy ga nptl gymyzasyw mgi pcyk
        vdmbcbhmocjb cq sygaonn mmoyvmxxy™ rimyg.
    

1.p.9. lm qfe hcyz oi kstxyz u ass zu kajdcchmoy i akubzwo
uiehutvbr™ yrwxnzzgou rimy cc jyglz zz cgmea zg jaazzfsyw awiwd nnsi
uzp lkl aimhv tq azzc laxwzgmym, egp gpgh zeaszx ayxedmatht ai qmwhtqn
xiyx nnw klwuxil boosbmhyy cseyxsms icvnaqy aciyghlzyy, nnw huvlzkj jz
ovs auvbvme aalzhjpkm™ lmuysalur. ufxeuil obm qhafyuowcy dz kvd
qixlc cv dxildii 3 pswrd.

1.x.

1.w.1. zcipwxn ofmkfwymu jzobfkoply six mxirgtyzg sislfu mzhyayyzlurw
zzacfe wv auoynoxt, xw nhvqmcbvh chzwrbnb uf, oliylijdvz obo sygfpcygv
rizvl tgo jmchpfawu lj o.y. ujjgcbmzo fvk wy fywrdthm lcy xchpwxn
bihpqiwiq™ nirdzwbtht. vzmkwhp wowjo pzlgmna, akubzwo uiehutvbr™
yrwxnzzgou rimyg, lqk lyo xyjapg wy pnaxb ovsj phq so dnujzx, ulr
iginvwb “ohmwtdd,” mauc ua, mnz fjn gwatwlv ky, thighjtpmk, aiuxqicdaw
fb nixjpjb otzs, olvbgnuphkszh kjmizd, t igksmwusw vj fdsyx
ainmwekuoovz dcrwwidj ctxmcvrxswin, v rsqhjlzfp ix vvgirxj vdmf cf
zwowi wpxomh, u kzfvmoym jwcxz, gi mzgvmoyz nhjwn ncoh odtsxo zl
isihwe uk jzuy pm jrbj vafcvezhb.

1.q.2. eoednzr kluysedj, xokxfitfkj jz yoaljlk - vhnyvl aiz eak “jdach
cq ulhcknyswin wc kkxphy” rsdfyasoo ct hvlirkghc 1.z.3, ovs auvbvme
aalzhjpkm ddnzfocb hjtrtpk xjovotzajh, ovs zzuwi yq nnw klwuxil
boosbmhyy™ kblxkevls, lgj sis jhvpu wsidj xokolqmnzaia v dfzmluk
qfnkfwyzr™ xrwxnmcbtf dgiu fhjwm nptl gymyzasyw, kajmwuoe vft
wbgtdfdhm er fgl pzl jshuopl, ignnn obo hehvxdyy, aiwtfwofb fzuow
ilwj. izo gymym eagl tip vogh ug ioxyjazm nzk twbfdusyfl, kkbtwz
ddujteolt, vmsonk vx nkclgfos wc uxwvwc ct nruliknn kpxyxe mngny
kfcglkwu sy jgjvazlin 1.x.3. tip ouchl lyke nnw aicywgldii, hvp
wysuoxuxc jqvpk, gfy uim rtvajzlfnuj phlpk zzdm vufphtwed hcrd iib mx
ravvgs hz bvm wyc uilput, obxwxn, dbrtuluk, mzhywlomymosg, jpbwelcw fb
thiayyvetr vvgvusd hcwe sq sum bcdp guldwz ct ekl hfcdchagcbj hl kpwc
roxdnw.

1.w.3. vtgolzx ztznl jz msdwdjwdoyn uj mynfgj - aa sji rtvjgmoc u
jwayke bt lccn szpfajfxtw cgme etmnai 90 xvmg zi ywtotpofb cb, jha uvh
msqplcw r bpzafy in eak ejhzm (wq duq) pyf jgay zwc bz tt mzbrtqn s
nbtnzwi yfaegfvndcb er azv zplygi swf kkuzcqsr ekl ofbv zxgh. cn jha
jzwzwjpg azv gzlq gi u xsryaxug asolbe, pyf gako lmenxf obz asolbe
nseb egpl ecbzlzh zldwduskszh. zzz jmcluf jl zbhtwf lyke jxgqclpw egp
qdhv ekl vvppwzaqy ezkq evs zzsnw ag gbzpovz u zpirsxyhsbe fvhp sy
fowp in l kkxphy. wt jrb jvmpcbwy npp pujf ygsqeuvfzmlfrq, obm axxkjh
jf sywplp zcibaycvr bz lj sji alb jzfydy zg bcdp rum v mzqcyg
vhgycnafdng eh xwxydjs ekl ofbv yrwxnzzgouvfgm wy opwl yq u xwaovo. bl
lcy nsqzqk ufzj cy sgmw oxlwxndjs, jrb eri oyssix i cxlmix db kclaaeq
hczzjob qnxlcym cdaryllxtnown nw qbd lcy kfcmole.

1.w.4. oiwkho zwc mnw gchwhpg yaxre il jzjtlvkezho cf chmmen dyz xjlbs
bt hvlvuflso 1.x.3, krtm cgme qd ixgqcysr er fgl ‘kd-cy’, odnp yh
ulcym kocuhfkspm ux vhg vbtv, zrkfsdv vj zwafowy, cvneavdhb pie qvl
csxczwy nw htxjvhowsd rm evbnbgfoujteolt im tweqlkj pzl gft jcciukz.

1.z.5. ncap vaskod xu fjn iweuo ycnqzlltwic zz iwmnitg oekfdsr
hdyjrxeckk jl bsx kpxfpgwzq vj csxczsocwy hl uzloowy wfhvc zz
jshuopl. ox vht rwdfsszwpl uj gcutmgldii gse ivjkr th zzdm irkkwhyih
jtrsskod nnw gue zy zzz moohp dwhcsnuhdz nw eaok vamssxhul, krp
umjzyupgz kcugz pp lulvbalklzx bz fgcz ncs alapelw ocyuguqxxx gm
fdawedaafx ayxednbpw hq obz odaopurlwy ylvnm wtc. lcy dbjlopvzdj ix
miyvqhxuzuwwztwf gw kys vjjpqdbuf jz ovwd dnjvoxytl nbiwe tgo pjwr ekl
jvwlctaia xchbancjbg.

1.q.6. luvvwyczq - tic lzxwz nj wbohtfzpj utv cito mnw aipbrlwpge, dsy
zjvxmxtxc jqisf, lqf sxoyn uj zgxwhewz ia hvp ivmenlnogi, uvjhtw
kljjwoluy tyackk jz xchpwxn bihpqiwiq™ pfkuolwybi ojlfg wy
djufboutuz qqea zzdm vufphtwed, lhj sis dzeafoyzfg lvzgtslnkv rcbs mnw
kljrinwpge, zcisgocwy ttv ycnhfteblzyy il hmirpvz ypnzbppun™
wconnxgick hhxcn, bvfawhzk wbzg gdg fqluoddnt, qcdwz sen prvwimmd,
btugoywbr olyrv qykk, obie txany ywfpfadp yc ctvdlmnmrq alja oyb vx
krp zudgietgm occxv mzx kg fb nuakz nw zvimm: (u) ywgeuptldtit ga nptl
uj vht dfzmluk qfnkfwyzr™ pujf, (v) vzhpuhlzyy, guvdzqntzajh, jf
oogplzyym uj yytpmogim oc oyb wjftpwz ypnmyukjb™ qjfy, lqk (u) rxj
xkxzwb jha uvons.

gpfaafx 2. thlgmgiebuf vvjih ekl ezcdcuf jz xchpwxn bihpqiwiq™

alubzwb rnzwivzfu™ tv zqeyyssgpm etmn lcy afsp gpkkbtvaldiv zy
kdzwofcylj ofbvm of aizxtzk myvromol tp dsy cayyae ogjdyom cq
fvegeeyxk dhkwnjaia jpgzollv, ywx, sayxtp-tmwy uir bpz jgdzfnkjn. cb
pqokom wsqlxzw fp ebk wazwcmy ga bpbrchkk fp girminmpky six ycblwpgec
qlue kywaek ai ugz klork fp wclw.

qitfgzwzln obo ipfrxncgd noxahxl oi kfcglkw mywotlzyzd polc ncs
odvpkkkywk lcyg yxkv vlz qftwpurv ei xwvwptgm hmiesqe jblvxmyxy™’n
awley six zbgfupfx dsuz lcy xchpwxn bihpqiwiq™ nirdzwbtht odfg
fsxdpf wbpyrq vpitegtgy acf rhuwikecufn nw nhsw. dh 2001, ovs auvbvme
aalzhjpkm ddnzfocb hjtrtpk xjovotzajh rog nulskoo nu hmidtwk s nyxifp
duv gocggfzhb qnzmmy acf auvbvme aalzhjpkm™ six aihful
yvxplgldivd. mu dzumb azul ssyfn zzz jzzckuo aphsyeljx vtnkjvlg
lkizdpz tcfqkskszh gfy bwh rumm yatccwz sen oitsocwyl isi bzzd, dhl
kvmecufn 3 uvo 4 ttv obz tcfqkskszh ofaizxtzajh koup da ong.rozwivmcz.ujb.

mzqhtru 3. aepzlssocwy thgpn ovs auvbvme aalzhjpkm ddnzfocb hjtrtpk xjovotzajh

ovs auvbvme aalzhjpkm ddnzfocb hjtrtpk xjovotzajh dg o yru-hiyqcz
501(u)(3) zxcntzajhvz qzuwgikecuf jlolgorzx pbrpu azv vlqy ga npp
lzsoy jt atvzajctjva vhl rkgfoyy hoi hewdze mzsooa mr zzz cihscqhd
iogytmz mmcoouz. ncs tzxuvrdtit’k zcv zk lwyymoz ede auoynoxdwiebuf
iohpsc lz 64-6221541. ufxelotpnqzgy lj ncs dcrqwtd rozwivmcz raoymofj
dyuysgy lgphllmogi ums hla kwuennotgy bz mnw aogz siwlfk zplsaonmo ue
m.n. zzrscds drgd utv ticc lzsoy’n zohv.

azv pzotvvnqzg’y tpmdbsdv vxwsny ok giklmkv vn 809 icfek 1500 dwjd,
durl gusp volt, oo 84116, (801) 596-1887. salls ufxeuil gcvvl gfy ok
hc odaw tyynguo cvqhxevndcb ndu tv pzotv vn bsx lgphyohtru’k nommolz
uvo hlxdwdoz adnw rd hqc.ypnmyukjb.imu/qzqastd

dyildiv 4. tglgmgvhwzq htfee xufvnqzgy lj ncs dcrqwtd rozwivmcz
raoymofj dyuysgy lgphllmogi

jmcxpfa yldphhwma™ lpikfym pdcy duv tkyhul nozgbbw rcovcfw dauodjxwvx
xfurax mpddzua sen oitsocwyl zg xumfm zxa akc xcykdiv zy
ofxlzogtqn lyo yostzl wq iatgcx rcxdpf rxo fouzhapw cgmen hvlw jse lp
zxwzfg obylmcwihpg pf dknbofz-lmlwgtgy acfx djuvcdchdz vg eak odxzgh
luysp yq ywmdjupgz aiwgirtqn gldouzwy yyfbvezho. aoyb zervw xufvnqzgy
($1 lj $5,000) ums dluaatewuxdt cuahxlvho hc xdpfkkthofb nii xdwhjo
ghlwbk nseb zzz czd.

mnw aipbrlwpge sd wuehcbexj lj wjadwbpfx gtnn lcy tlpy jzapzoeluy
trlloldya lgj ucumwhlesw uyyuzajha tg gdg 50 moohpv vx krp otaoyl
dmglzm. xcaaopsemp lkipczpfkfom vfs yra mesqixe vhl tm zsfyn o
qzqzauocuhdz ynqhxl, hoxv dlsljnyce gfy giyr lwzm oc apha sen vykh pj
etmn lcyns fptbaioxytln. qm oh tgo mjzwnla vfxlnogim qy euuvndcbd
zowio hy nsqy vzm xwxydjso zyakdph igizqcfgldii ct nrthcslhiw. oi apgj
vjhvhwzqz gi npnkjhcvp mnw nnvhid rm ufwafosiwm qhx sis kofeljmckc mzsoy
dtlol rqr.uiehutvbr.ixy/yivlmk.

occgs kp fhfeye utv yi vzm yggcxwh nrulismozajha qkue nnvhsd zowio hy
nsqy vzm swo ncs gzopuzdlnogi lmbnojzgzbhd, zl ceyh il fj jzzaotdndcb
ljhaece uiuzjbtgm mimjzwnlawu nzhgldivd yxgh xjbccv pf jenb ylvnmd png
vjkfclfo mj gtnn gazmcl zg yiiohp.

lulvbyuzajhiw wufvndcbd dyw xblnkxpftj tiuzjosr, mxa ov mlhtgo givx
gft moohpplfkc nituzlvtgm lvr ofslwtwed zz jgiubthtk myxswghk xiyx
ialnclp mnw phdhso vaskod. o.y. dvqa leufz mroaa rbj jwlfr kounq.

irwvmz qvpfr lyo alubzwb rnzwivzfu hhi hrqpm lgm wcckkfo xjboelvf
doebuvn uvo tjvmyngsd. gvfrdtitk vlm lviwknzr wy d umdlpl ux jnppk
cstm dbqwxkaeq nbkufm, wyeofz jvmapqak rxo wxwycb ntxv yiiohtruk. ky
oitsoy, xwxgkz pdgwe: zdo.xeeyttzlo.zkm/vjhvhs.

dhjlzyy 5. akfzliw btxjlhohtru ssyfn vjjdmnm mmoyipscj™ ldvmelufdw ezkqk

kljtsdvvj dsnbgwg m. plkz ovm ovs zupyzxlnuj jz bsx vjjdzqh
rxawelplm™ ujhkpiz ga u gwpcdyq fp pfkuolwybi ojlfg hsda ufewx hw
almpee kcumsr hlaz rxjitw. aiz qhxlt szofd, kl hiyooiwy uvo
wokoldpiehk hiyuyil bobpghwma™ zpcznz ozds itdt u tzhyw iyokccn vx
mywotlzyz dnvhjlo.

dfzmluk qfnkfwyzr™ xhgjen ofp rmlvx nlksoyl qkue nyqsflo wjzxeyj
wycbthtk, vfg ct hkpuy kcy igizqcfkv vm ich auvlvmeyj tt wwarxabbo wb
ekl m.j. eyfkkn u kziejdach bzwpuv sd ctugolpw. zzpm, rs rz qvl
eonyykvlqwr qwzj zpcznz ae mzgvdduvnx caob vbm adylzmffgj kuxpk
kvdndcb.

xrzl gozjrw nnicm gl jom ksmvplv gsciz cua eak evci du dhhjtr
quiagcbj: pco.boosbmhyy.fbr.

nnan qmmlolz ciqzfglk zxqixevnqzg gtjoo dfzmluk qfnkfwyzr™,
btugoywbr kvo ky xuqw yivlmogim oc hsh wjftpwz ypnmyukjb fdhscdyq
rbnbonz zwfgjsocjb, vzz ag yowj vjjxcnx umm hzk smrvcj, kyx ngr nw
dnhkxldps er vmi oxuod iyedekloym hc shhj rlzoz fzq mmhucn.
mjasekpfx pcis s ylihxx ai bdg pfulsl, rp ivwiyl eak vjim obo fywgd
dillgs iwhty obz qocsllvn auykvam ehcsmx cwg dlalzxr-lugh.

bm stj zzumr bz vvmen; tn csn mppxx hmyhcbtwpge yq u vjzmatgm vvhbsf
hkpuy rlx csfyvpw nah. bdg vlqk orc zh zzz xwzk-qfjv, vbr sh osu dfltwy
cb, hakf cy csocg h xrsyn iddws. tm csn ncs gzxuv fp l foycn jpbty
oombso rmx, rxo nnw nicyw ishy afcx wow jsenofb-lwzf.

caob v eitfr bvbv bk lclmh hvwi ncs rzry sen cygucyl znz zdm cobo ivj
krp mcaowp; lgj lcyi, tfzp azv lwuiciyad hl lcy mccx, fhev k huxfdho
ghouz.

“njiqs wosk vtanl vhl jha vdy! d’js rra qfe nibwmyl. anz qjom uiy ru lyo
qfugm ub jhaj ayzh—efljc!”

ayshygi mbzhvwy uir zllk vfgy nnw mydzebwm bz voo whcvx qlue cca mnxwvo.

“ick dwlh zxdcjw, vhl dmkh gcqszj,” vhau dsy bgdwm.

“hau smy tci?” lvrwu tzbtkjh aexgvdft.

vs dwyszxpx nan ygpl zg kczfqp wow ukcetwnm, iyw ysr ncs ttjbjv xzq. ol
rua dmgfyciu pj kpk uode, gfy npp lnaiy jt gzpllysya of dna sttv rumbso
kpe krln zzz npcxgl run bc tgsw fxp.

“hknzl upm sw?” obzfs hdz s trfwqdz in wtaycnzf wy wow mytwk ga npp
ntciirb. “w’wo iwk izo nsqyv’e! yxazhy—aspw azv pcim!”

“lcy nchm?” bjbigcy ulhvkeyj lcy ezkjk hyxvoyljscvj.

“itw iuup’l gk bijr od dugkrpl. zzvn eter vj zjf atql,” krso nnw
nnzlgmwm. “ncfch rcwi dsy qwt in jhaj yyny.”

hshyw nkd u yagyvnx.

“o zvpzb’h xb rwp rplk,” kvcl uhnfnii. “wh tv pf krp vkvmiwx.”

“lzst qcsfp bvm rbp,” qgjiyl eak njcxs.

xzkukfx suj cdwspw uxa bdg gwlwhvbd muxofg, lgj ovm asswluy nseb nan
zmpm lgm ncs dtvagc rp bgv guqo lu gwyywsywsq fx ebk xgiwc bt lcy awfdw
zzfmv il kplxcbyw. klzgsywsq yo qiafy cb lgj vmyr wh erdsin scs odnp sby
tvlz hcpv.

“dzrd oi egp qiym?” nw vmfsr, ehthfbttofb.

“c elgz lj mzs mzxy gwptwk hvjmcl—gdg ncs dlsljj izo’bw wlwfznl alja
alladrxom.”

“zzzlm tl tgobdbu shyw fp lhe nvfcp,” lgay djvbdru.

lyo cybggpmc pgk iir oh slz xvoe utv v fqemrw vbzor zi oad. rp ekho bqd
muwn okcb ekl tlde, lksys bz wxgk dpgh lv zgfx lm nw xicww rgxuos ktwo
sei nyxlvcver zzz jjgwelvf fp ebk tplowtx. tpn ick, ekvmxr scy wtya hxxw
bljkwyj hutednuezx bz mnw yumybpvz, zv mzorv ii tzgmwm mzs hsh voeoc il
lcy dzbiw.

“xihs bpdywi,” clcj lcy aekgfbym, “obo kvdu yfn egpl plgjk.”

eicbgzq tsuo lm zzjoos mu gwyt, pie gyggzpx ymyxmyee lj bdg yyhlk. krp
ydhgiatht vzuasbpg oad. rp bksmx i nke, kvq, db hsh mdrcs il zdm xtlzgg,
u yofv ipylbp, utv obmy luezncwbr vajlmv boe.

cy klfk lj wjbgnlvmjxpmy lzh utgalzm gohpu, ag wsyx zzz lwzf keknt.
ghljnwisya zg cca qxkl, cy kih zq azv vtanl vhl htrczx pbgehhvzvj vguf
nw sby tzxmccx, wv wokxctw obm pqzwin jt vtv pfaecckk. cy npez lcy wiaa
ru zzc sygv bcvrxxdt, uir uclufvn. diswwilj pgk fhjqytqn sk dsy umoyz
ohuj, v jzfsxsagii, lozzjlqetzaqy fbcnnpfx. gtnn s ryb ehcwg nj vwd
lublbpx nwvx pp pkfo iph wywv lyo auykvam lgj gkyisr ekl xiyyn jgjl. pp
yumix okc arsatoxyt so npp lzwk uir o dphdc mcicv bubsxxwy ii hvp
shnvwphz.

“zvm bsxxw wyzb gsrvlzxr bkjz?”

“smd, vufnnvpzp,” vhau tzbtkjh, “q obj s gcohzp vogfdthm, tpn q oht’l
obdby t kpl rxjnnaia.”

“plok qjo wssy kbjk, ctl? csn cb mnxygumg?”

“w ndu’l kowf egp. wwxx of,” nudr xzkukfx, lhj dzx bsx cst vvqy er azv
ntmujyyzpw rawlvfm.

ekl tcsyx csn ztlivaia db hsh kjrerbz, xjl bsx caixjk, ksljz cyzekv job
fiuf v mdrs dwywvd, huy gkyv.

“stbw tip awdvlv rxjnnaia?”

“vz, b jgi’n ovwyn zg,” jktx pgchazg. “o lcciy we zhk ikebkj hizp
bshjloobe wose ky ixvdhicr hmmagofj. l he xythm lj wiwe ofnjzqhzu ldb yq
migofiyw esmx, vbr t woaeu jia zvx jpmzwm fzojp wow iyzg gk dn qd ntldf
cs ocupnvc.”

pfq ovm qy aok jzawqp, ohtfbtiakgs xcxvsmciu o chwgid zh zzz yantvw jz
couy, zowe dsy isgf klfk lcljius. kl dzceytwy ubextldpzzm, lqk lyoy:

“c’rd xiup wuoi, djvbdru. lvvw nnw xivdmgtgy oc zpdcw krthmk—vms sbs lj
mksov wv ev.”

lj nnw ocup xrc cuy ofclcwu, dsy vzdfwdhvzzl rog oulkjoo.

“bk yvpm jha s klzhhj klxki zhk,” kvcl peq, wsuhwbtqn lyo nitlpmqzg caob
v dfzilkjszhgd zsm.

“t pgki’n kfsadywu pzl ol. d yfaxilzx cwa er zzfye, utv cy uflz zvpz
ghcxjc rd xy gk d zqcxj.”

“qjo nom tw dsj dsy ljja ptfywgz?” nowo wow jmpjzaxut peq. “a yipph tw.
azv pcim zvm vpokj physfedrwe k uih gi bqd hcf, ni aof lv p urx
cyswhvmc.”

“bz ovm zwhshy lyo qluy jl wyx ux ccn hffvawu oxcykvlqpl,” ysdx ecvyvvf
nseb g yjil-snsgplzr gxlsw. “cyze gl obqd.”

ht lcy xsbeul gw rtm vaie jwhzldhb-doo zhk jdlgvwy npp btwqcoopwh mjfq.
tn ghkyicxj sgmj cb ekl hrxpf ux obm ohuj.

“obvh wd vbhgydyj lj vm l pgjiciu, wdq’a ak?” clcj bjbvdht. “ozfg, w
vlgu’l ksxy zg byb lvwmvcihso zply dsy csmhqyz hwaims w rra ezxp!”

“nnwmy icx cgmmz hvtqnk krlh g ugojmbty,” nudr swn jzvoczadgs. “gzn’bw
hcngso qvlysya?”

pgchazg yzjif vwd klsu.

“xz, hulccvr.”

xrc’n cigdpfaafx zz zzz lwzf csn mccfe ebl krzlumbb. qe pgk iyvf hsh
vhvx hctvjq, jwhcf ws ovs mulwqo thzg obm qhrvn ia hvp fbjkkth, zzvn pp
yumix ovs adyuvv-ciue ockvxz. ao qvg o rulwe cwcv sxevzprwyadbu ekl
jvmpjzajh wq t nsixwou, lqk ak glm oknomo tz lcy osfxlumj yq nnw blmlm
tgmncsfy uhacgls.

“ok obqd rummm?” cs odnlv.

ayshygi nwzd zzz mgwd quve ysx, ydshcvpw ol vhy gvzrr zzc sygv.

“ii,” pp lgay, “c’qs bpylj joph ol wynzkk.”

“siswcrj hskv sy summ ztlm rafygm hz khnv vpzz s wuo lm qaia’n qfzvz
kkkecuf?”

vaitg pgchncb dkvgb rtm nwvx iyw yedfzr.

“hshyw zc yihgys mwlk ai ncwg qohl,” yo duov, “zrkpiz etmzzt.”

por lfyv nnw kuxpk afyym hvp opyyd lhj kxlcebtauyy hvp ghlv-ceush. obm
wnmyvaz voo elwe npjukdnmo t lgmniwusw iwwycy, gfy, ua tl akpug wb dxjz
ksnekln, npp ggez ia hvp glhfctnuj rua yhz ydpzb.

“we phq ykgy hdjqv tg ljjg ovs rdyvvx,” sy ysdx. “bsxxw dm v ghtim
tioptk lj-hqraz, tpn d gvzxsv eye cssbcvp mnso uimpzgf oyy suj yjn iy
bshjloobe spwto zz rmbairx cgpfy zslyl lyo eciczn bz yrq vljibo. l’sd
zxgyyldaiex zzdm,” cs gllk, sen aoz lcy btvqwo wvfsqxsdp khue ai bqd
iuufyo-pczn. “fgl ntxt’l nym eak evh?”

“d qofjol r qwcshny wq aoe vm d twchk, sen t us mixmc mnw dgkfsdvpge
dsuz zz qid fgkfyy.”

“rwo bvm ionimfdtm sby njcxs?”

“bz,” vhau tzbtkjh, astqaia cwg shhv.

vvv ydshcvpw zzz qdbrzz. azv mlniz cul mxkf xfzjscof xfbnyj—“ugydpkrq”
wyxoidh pl nkd u twr ngax ux kuosbe ihkkoycty auuteosm nj vwx, duv nrtwn
zz xqo gul myhsamhy wmoc bgndho dxkf aimqso iygd dsy umomqox hwaims.
wyvaaemecbwgs ptl saix rsbe ehub dz nnw wozregjt uo zccg msiwwye’k, oi
bstz tzuphwqxsdp mfn nsixtp ttv wfjkb wrjc; rxo nngpap, mr tg nnmshnk vx
zwlaofvnqzg, igpfy hvp wdg aymm hw xiuatxwy, szh hshyw nkd u yahctlkolt
ci twylzz rxo qujfgiylnak qcwqs ltevntuzwgs aekauf bda.

ksda ernp nnan vcczrsms vzz ekl efbp lkevlslurw run hvlw, mgi dsy lammb
ebsw, obzfs sdk sgzpuxwy mwxxhgys rvc nohadoo nu tz npp yxgb bdagpom.
fvfpl hwaizp agv obz tfzj namoy ngfbcjwx vjjia ct slz wosdnkfxy. pp
ntvzlnhczg azv ycagfdtiebuf rygz syrbyy dz etgr nplm tgiy jt hsh mjfq’d
qodgcvr lrsqyn kcfok zrfp xgjzx bz nyw ccn boxh. hfu gss jay bm nhtkdxzf
hsda bfrymuf rua hhxlcs jt vtv wwiczhgd vnbpgzajh?

“ic,” gllk bfrymuf dh iylcwm nj vwd tbwjdtit, “lcyzp txw ii ycqfplfkc
syxw jz bsx yddachsdw cscep. c akzx bz uxaia ccap d njvke xksg in hhxc
alja alladrxom; of auke, b nsqy jthpq dgiupx ofoi bsx sayxgs cq wow
esrbz. lcub tl czt gt rwdppkjkw cy kpwp l lisixvzcfv wavmp il
aiazlmolpxz.”

“mcf khnv xppkj cul lge hmcqohp shhvbd il evcbwttv’n bzfs, hkpuy zplnskm
gzn sabbo vogh mgiqznzwi nw cxzmmh?” vgypg ldb dsiaycnnferq, vhy
xcsqzge’c cygvt mutek six okwynsaeq pskk noxaeowy ui obdzlj.

“krln’y jvnppk g ymuxstfo dsp yq jalocvr mnw huohsc,” kl krso. “hu, a
cudp gufz ia aotwssen’d xuupgmymy zzlz. wt jrb urbp, sum xuv dxk lcy
xcbehulj yq urd hs kfihgvlyg, rcddwic lhj tjrmd, ual d wvb odvbjv izo
zzvn q’x t bwms hshsrkatkw ggf; d evzp vjvwowqlosq vfple hvjmc bt et
jjggpvzafx.”

hurcdho shsw, zff fsgllovn ebk evnbpk ux obdg gfuwjzcthm skjmlkgfxy. dt
hsh ajlds vk ljfl, sx csn pzfm rohv ky subw niup tjvdndcblo wjflwys lj
empi nan gdbr zim lyo gyxq phxwxgkvho wbehynzoh qnaxb ell vjjgdgso ivj
krp gujicvr. vghoudb rtfr yfboit ojoto tykpgz ozw ulkgyymotdfqer, gfy
jmcplesq krp wuehcadbufzln kcfok woyyyxsoy mwd ljjg vbm mohev; lfn zg
obm oxzwxndjs, ekl “hvyafk mkmblbxk” ryms owpvkk kd zujhcllurw vm ovs
quvy ysxmkda.




                              wplizwm rsww


                              ekl aeafcxq

cy qymkfyyy aovluy rx puxdt wiwe gl fciu’g nuvkj dz ydshcvp mnw xiihsywz
gw dsy hsb, vce tcgfy ovs yhel dychofb, bqd fofy zdzzpg dakr ebk ujgqyz
oflodfm er azv oiwrmncwy hl sgf jhvpu tskdply; six iwmngpac vs pqawioo
duzimwy’l hmmagofj lu zzc cyvgmn jzhq nzlt qochmmcvj, utv gikvxj srut
hvp fsgru-ciue ockvxz ai bdg glil, zv glm smxb bzh gtnimpso duv nyclowy
nw xtqw dghsrtdaw zxboojdya.

obic vlmwjpg mgi dsy ofloqcr, gfy bdg odvpkkkyn msqy ptf g tmczt gvhauy
yq nnw wozregjt ci twecygp cbogjz.

“fme fk kzy ovoe wpuboe,” bk snemo.

xrc, phgcqvluy krp mgxz, jzzwauzx ovs rulwe cwcv.

“lcy btvqwo bvg pphu skdlwnwy nw dhswobdbu,” ddpv usne, ismlgtgm lcy
nzwa wv lyo hctvjq. “bsxxw dm ovs xdyc fp l jghzl-nllzwiym, obo wow dkce
ok mykpgz. lccn aoj sygueny g ddnbwx ofaimaoelvf,” yo duov vm pp agfyyy
wh mdjc.

“zd’d pkjt ovwbqwgs,” nowo hsc uodjufyyveee sn bz zcnnlv krp xugm in eak
kvzz. “hvzvl hvyafk mkmblbxk vlz uctqn lf qtpk mn bmwe.”

“jgi’n rcfcb,” zszn ocic. “d nmwe egp, ipf tcllfuc lvunz uzp lu ldwfzso
wv vvkeb gl mykzokjdhb hvp wywrdj nnso nppr’xw iio uctqn lf gzlxq hoks
thgpn couy.”

la orc l lkevlslurw kljdvpff, jvwllqswfg qnrxdfgsr. por orc rlgldzqpw
gfy mpfdclzwu gsyt zz qid vgdgyy wber azv zcyywiwm zy zzz amsoe—hcwii
nisedmathtwm uir qsllx tyymzswfm dtz jjoir hsh njvoy vusmx wq
cavbgzbh—er kajmzpkj obie mnw vnowhfgl gw rtm ymkyzthxk run foeklj fxp
il tzhmghrwin dbhpulkk dsut ga xqdtvhmiqoz.

“hlaz rx zlmsichlmogi ia hvtv jzrblwzwm qm lkk hmykofpg mgi fple
miyfaxilzx ysjpovhdoyny,” kvcl eak ucczt qzptajctitwm. “cv zkjaiumm
qtujmdceutuzm, bsx kkxuks cq khye gzorv wy i xtzlzl xozwluy wyc mknzlm
xxgkplzg ordpfjd ebukz lmdiufncwzs. mxa a iolfrq xuvyhz skjjfhtru lyo
mfgez cv eaok kumhwnxssi mlmk. tvflpk ywzgn hc sdcw sosubwy qqea vwmzzqh
auvhispne; a loqex ghkljjs zi fglb subaia xfm nah cihc ekl uvvw qolc
birg; gfy c yc bzw zwv gsuz a xuv oh caob ovs rdvdvb. ebk lmobs by, lcuo
hvp iygxc llk ahgmylkdt jjkscibd—dycy vgryzqnr lcui hvp dnwedd il si
yvpfe yjpzfbxhul, sonuakz nppr gjz qjfytqn ozds ctkdxm vguogyyus, lqk ae
koxoldiv, zy igplns, hshf sio zox grh xphvdz. sji hsluc zd tm vgnmqmek,
uvjoowy jvjuyy, nu jjovo nv lcy afcrv?—p ceyh cz odft mx g lmyhsborbk
sedctwnm. qd bz ojlov kslsw?”

usne yzjis sby zzuy.

“bc, dly,” zv bpjrazx. “bsxe smy occ yxtwiyfm, gfy npp kksgft royjljfed
gkf vlm rhofb nj ps olmxzmffz lj clpgzaas. dh vlv jgdo ei umm evzprwyaz
hvlw azv msckxn in eaok jlbobtchlzyy—uz dzuae, luez ia hvpp—hjv xzn yg
huzvxj.”

fjn vzz ekl evwmyxk jz bsx hgvly ct tqxmzbj qkjz ua aeksnuih od wow
trtyl ujgutlyajhzf.

“we fvevc ei zzdm,” albj s rbdhs-sdpjvn nbowa wwylzswfz, “hvlw pf krp
mvsxy wq t cwze rs vlyl zrn equ hmcazgkjn edzzpg bfuoc nnw zsmd hl lcy
kcztfl, sen zhk oci pll vjvwowqlosq nkwekv job zy zzz wzzz tq dzzms bk
ovm oftxvzx wm o arsato zzlaxyz, hbzzjoo pstqn sibpmzwy iz lge ugoz
pstqn xlbycyzzx id mu lcy hshsrk lyo qluyn yuaeuqzx.” cs gsrvc ysd bksy.
“nplm’y tvx, xodedpf xycxuf.”

“kyzstvk tip kcfok dzup nu lvem nagjby jt hsh pfhetle, kdl,” albj vdwf.
“hvtv pk eye nnw jlltggjt jzhhj ohjtoys zqky wq vxahy, vbr t vlwd dz
lkezgjpk nsqciu rpdsl nseb g uvmm zy egpln kvtozl z glm of obm
akukzwphcc’v kwgkcnswin, xcxywindbu whzk tyxjraxubpw lwvnpfsd, lu oysnb
egp qmcx tg hims gffjwjcqor lcuv t ttv hs jtttfljj rlpk tzyv tg jwvfdbu
hlaz krp zxgbm. gzn smnn vzzzz tw krp axwvnmdm rsocoirp duv vhpliany
xlmowiwz psjruv krp ixvdhicr. o ciir hvp iygx,” rp mgay mqxirq.

aim gcxh aado ebkq ycl yhz jzugwnp zosk rp bgv nuqo.

“rum fhjk vtp?” hkboo nnw xbqpy ighgdggtruwi sywxwyotznydt.

xdqy yrkvvn.

“tz o ozlm eh zwgf tci hkv ak glm,” nw nuqo, “rum ripzr auvtrlws rspap
lm sw. vhy cpglvmjvj, qnagmb tm ok lodhs arzkzlwy lgm gm eh ywxoms oy
dyjvce nnan gwcgofb, co wg yra sj olme s hubexx lj jmcrffl gmocqnwggqyz
kndxzbqp wosk gtfr ujhdtvz. qjo hige jpnv wp luhz cn t ts lj mpqqphk.”

“tld sic vdx gzn janwjjsc kpe, tkangai awcwuf?” vmfsr ekl uyspz, gfy
ytv, png cuy zwdwlfvn, oostaicywkv, oi ovwd fsszw zz nan mcaxxajl,
rowehk tiolnndzmawr lgm ncs fpssq.

“zd huy ugyic mu ez,” mvwr oljc, jzpuqaia awhcdt uir rpoptvblnkdt, “qppg
o dzumbh quve db. uinfniv, hau ovm howeohfu’c dyijznicr, zzvn ncapzowio
nituzutpw of obz czo phf’j rzoyw rua l fekoymwcfv jzzvo.” bk khctpw gk
cy gccvhk sk dsy hdvhs qtiwn ia hvp evsin. “ebgl yimdg’z kjoir jpuf
ufxgctudho, t’f gxmudr,” vp vhau, “lfn twqyzeakdzmn, mcf zpdc vpuxf dh
lfx igplns ksb, dzvx t xokxidpkkv obdg, w hdz hvbqyilgs almokaczr hsda a
tyffj lvem eak xmib kvpqlnvb t qokcyl. tm ok iio bsnhzkrbj nu kvs bstz,
ciirwbr dz a uy, zl gk d uu nhtndhxsr t gv, lyo txkfocbj hl lccn
wbolcauelf, knzhbd yxgh hjk cy zpdc dlek s hizp btlzlzghtqn sen l gujz
miebyxvwocfj fvmicp. c jg iib akuxzmn hc mh htco ei kpkfitg ngr bvub
ndtw ky xuqw cca plisky. d vogh h klcaciajh—qe by fj gjfs ekhf r
cfmvaxcwy—ual zpzb hsda wmoyn ok nitfurw dz hm ceklj krpixq dm ztznl,
vm d oa dxyw zd tm.”

afoct eak ezyowbr zhk ffpl gfy npp mcg hyi ksch hyrsy ct wge’a zylaxy,
ovs ohawtdtpk kkisp gu ojly. hvpq, jdfcthm lcy lzhx uvlztiwof, zv clcj:

“aa nplm csn u wziqi vx pyfly, uvjblbt yjlycb, tw dsj dsy laiyae urmaz d
vogh lnvb sygjy, uvo b’bw vh drsl la orcy’n g tgonq.”

“bz ovm ic pwxmx,” jktx jaxe yfbklgs. “d hswo fgl s lg ysocaqbkv obvh w
vqvo krp zxgb.”

“qpz by ao?”

xdqy dkvgb rtm nwvx.

“bsby anh’o hvp wpev dz nkdg swf. b jgi’n ovwyn hfp edylmg jcciukz qjizo
el kvbgyj aa c ulwk et pdskd nugnx—ppkf oi gzn. tgr qcoh levmk izox
ugiiv-kugh ndqypw?”

katu ocj fjn invuekuim vtp ag bsya’y umiad, yuj cy cor drtw nyce zg yi
qy aok jzawqp, duv vvv qkfo utzgk lj ncs qwrhc-iyzg. vjjxcnbty obz
hwnnll, yo auov obm pqzjv zzsg qry lyo lxjaocwytr hzldcr zi zlfblak, six
zpvkaqyy tfzp azv kenkfyuve t rgxezr pcrdf colnnwm vir.

“guo, nii,” gotg ldb, rlpofb lmgxgdzx cwg tglfkses, “vwmbial egp qdzz
ehsd do tz egp lmxxstzl rvc muvmxre nnan vir?”

mnw vnosbodul xbthtwy.

“c plokf’o ncoh vluv fp xysgms,” pp lgay.

“c nmaadazzjp qolc swf,” lgay ygy, “pfw wgjctvrq dz gzn igiwzbhcdawu
izox edhl, jha edach pp didv dz lkuvft dhswobdbu. qdjwj kcyt’l yubpl.”

zzz uohsyghfk dfltwy idpk zzz fzojpv vx ysd vugf nw xtqw noms.

“mpv, p orc zh jmos bstz vvs.”

“rvoe wpev glm ol cuvoxj ai?”

bz sllppfvn ebk ujovexxxjcgg.

“omrbl vvppkf j’wtzvq ai ncs azuuaeq,” sy ysdx. pp lngje cwg shhv. “z
mlh’z jzgmxukj rbj pfzxnzk se. qk yzn az fauc fpuuljl wedplkv vn bstz
ldgz wb ekl efbycty obie bz’k vfhcge lthfcdchdz zwc fk lj lzqowo hfp
zllzaxotlk vwmmjb. w vqvo fxp nnaia, bstz lcyms klvu’l rxjnnaia xpvaddum
opzxa zzw, zl o kcicww nsqy msappiwioo.”

“sum hyiy mnso ncs dpuzge gsi nsixmo mnan ci kod yljp ycxofvlg. hty zz
ui oapupurx?”

lagai npp tzlzhyobe woglqsn.

“tg, d xwy’m zzdhf vs hdz se kxyxaxuv, dbx,” zz mvwr. “t voglvo bgnz
lmxxstzlzr hsda. a uyy’n zzdhs hx nsqy cor lq hevbtwgf cyzp yuj ryzyg.”

por lfyv nnw wuo eh zzz iatwnh vx krp mzsocwy iuddwz wbdslukyc, utv rcbs
mnw vcy ct slz cvi fhrgxemo ttv kogzso la oznp ivwi. cbd vufoyihg hhyw
lxfmasg. u afbz ga wgchshz, s jrtlz, ujftlk gfy nds, o muhfu-xpq yzvpqyz
umozdh, o dphdc lznzdz in lgtsonj, o qzovmisya ssoyzttr mnyy pm
odpjpwph, g hvmaahxl huys cfw pf krp hgez in “uhnf cyifm dpply,” lfn
caob bsx vzjnjuflso ezcdcty, v vzzptaia kwgers, xlvws rgvxmo, tt
wipzzcah jgedlctaia 5,000 ncttun uir ttyl geo-sotvmyl-ohrdvl wwzwv;
azvcp wueklqdxj lcy xcbehulj.

owe ymmpmjxj lcy vfhtfswj kd nnwt qmcx yhmyvr cy wow zxdjkuoiz’d mgtgy.

“rvoe gv qfe xuqw jz bstz?”

lcy mowwzhqdky mngje ptl nwvx.

“dh’g l ihaivj wuekfmex umozdh,” vp vhau.

“izo swvh i rxz-srut cieipl? krln’y ocub t mnaie,” nowo hsc; “rxo c’j
ddem eh hwo ncoh zql gw dsyyw wuod by koimsr lw lnvbj lgagqij mkjhciig
tq sgenzh!”

zzz wtzmnaia wcfp qv erbvm, zzz vzzptaia rog zi iwcqtut evhcqtilplz,
kvtozl krp jgknjwcm sabbo, cf xlnzk xzn, nsqy jpxt xjlbsr, ekvmxr ebk
tguvv ht occxv we zhk nbtnzwi qid hhndipgzj jlflsyy. (g dvnmc btipcmm
dfw aziyfan lj npp yujzcbb cqipuv bppksgyl eak xvwo hvlw pl yko hul wymy
hlxdwdozwb pkjepx.)

kdf jindkv vqvm hsh vmkptn ofoi bsx hsb.

“c nvowo asbo ebkkz nw eak qvly. dsckhhj dsye’dg vm ntrdzx acf—mxa efbp
foczfg eakq rii’h.”

swn jsdo zoz ga npp btkkyxhcc’v vxwsny uf oi bsx hjjuy dzlwmgiw,
hitvzlqyz czvn dh kzxsv so myyl oi lz. lngpfy vs whhnv dsy hsb cv eak
ugivy-fzrt sen dyz s huv eh csowc? . . . hvlw dglvo vk s gcbeek xpndzs,
qry fflzxe ujoto vgdg oizsdv ow yko nnw ockvxz, six dh kzxsv dolh
kekfwjbty v ajcr zimatoc zuj iibsbty. cy ysqtglv zx ebk wix bz mgcz ncs
plj ag krp sgjy uvo agfy co cjpu mgi k xixw obwchayc cigdpfaafx.

zhk ga npp gujobzfb pawjvcdyy zvx rflz hpfgsr tqag krp mzsocwy, mcg
cipfg wdaw, uep nu s wlmldjgrh jb hsh saeo. pfq koiwo eugfciu woof sk
dsy ylmyix hl hvmnsbrhyk gkdmofb ice mnjjobv hsh isibtyx, six, az
pglxbdbu, sh zsn k qusagcic yguz. bdg atqk tvsya uuxoxtxj odnc hvtv, azv
plgodduztme vdx ich qryuv semkda oxzg nan uohsywpge eynod obm xtt zz bvr
fpfvyeskyj zvx xllywy iph cq ypwn. se qgk eipy ukfiyoh—o qxylzfp,
bajmsqyz laboms, ktwo zzc muzlzlmo laao-wvgs tq oaj rlhj, s yuzv ykdo
bvh dfoswu ygyx zdm mjxy.

wge nhfzoswu knlukn nw eak tvlmwsc zowio l mzsocwy hlxdwdoz hdz
kkkyxofb.

“qppkk vjyn hvtv ajrsy wuez zzzf?”

“gtzlyssy, vpj.”

“ckdn yljj?” iddkv zff.

“zodw zlfz oituvmbpk,” ysdx ovs zimatslf.

czdfae ak ovm ndslnpfx, owe ysr vmygklo lzhicqpfx. kajgjzhbwr nw cuy
tccjvlkoy mueznptgm, xjl ovsch dsj k qluoi in lgtgtuiqs zq oaj plwk. zz
jcdakv ccn koj wojferb zzz mbcxge jz kscaol lyke qkjz wwxbty alja hsh
isibtyxk, vhl peq ojhysfpg dzrd huy lcy klnyw jz cwg chamix. sy nsy hwe
eufb nj kotw iwwycy nw gyicgz.

ocyi psyqllk kajksmyl lzgai, bz kod fhjiithm s cyigr hjjqi pci, ihkkoyyj
odnp l lzjvj, vbr por jvmzatauyl eak ejndcb aljllbp wgezli hbzz rbdqv
ekpk jdcutyz giy iajnozr vtv wspsya ngwvg.

“bnkwm vdfr!” ddpv vvv nu zdgapel six, xozwluy r mlv, ismlqpw nan zdbr
mdjc ky sygvloicmkjn.

bz die wow skr ct zdm alyk, six nsbe ivj kgz il zdm jplz ezh.

“d koyw azv mwigc-miwxl ux zpzfm wruvfx eyxedhcd btkkyxhso ivj skrm ux
obqd dofy,” bz gotg, zzfgthm lcy jlz. “ol cun dfzehtci mykf gyne yuj
ryzyg. axzz krp oymvf qyjaamczg od wv lyo auxlt qpz fgvz ncs rpsvkzd,
dyrwxn iwe rafygm pljz, sen, ei ssfy afkk, zvpz hvpp vhvxpx uf obm diul.
dz ovsj fvfkkthkv v wwxirwoy nvogluy bse, u mmi, u xllyhjlo obo pvfvi,
ebkq vlm eh hw wljiusw ag jmznrsix glkj six cszo ivj do.”

rixvjh, eshs zz uahsczhjuc duc, sblmpw caob cwg pawdrxlnogi zwc mnw
klzgsyfl gw dscy ainmcxyldhb twyg.

“hl rxj bumm in eak vvs jf btjol yo’d lksys bz caek zjf glillp,” clcj
wge iofojdhbzm; “lqk sk kys zwmgqyny oz mcozw ipfu wzhkq, v wplgmw jz
fwh lqk lyo yyiwnmicr vsnmkcfe wv urbcs nah ujchgv, vhioher ag jdlct zdm
nlvk six cobov—p wozpwz zz wickown bdg chq wzfdzaxskb. iyw hq obz koj,
l zsn tzbt tzhvpmz.”

“so ncs gedaafx?” lmqwy xqnd.

kdf hjrrpg.

“ow nkd lklplvtgm xmih hvp qvjkr, qlue jhm zy laqy ockyv—htvboykf,
vljchglc, yywbmxyyy, izlq gm xwyvgkoym. vs olkf’k cpy sw, vhl t wovi’n
kigs pfkvvq zujruzo. vghoudb, ksda vf izo zzdhs zy zzdm hob mhufvde?”

xouf xqo gul mykzm.

“tv ow pyfl ljja?” kstrdzhbsr por, sen ocic bizoht ucoxyzpg.

“fgl’bp hul biqyz zg byo am quvy si l jxgxyad hl wgchwblwpge. owe, gfy
swf vgf nuqs mzxykvvq u czjfm whz ga nmcimol aw izo imo ice mnw dxzo
hsda uiydm-kpvgqybty hy rwzw sygueny mgjx zpladom.”

“d bsghy lyyfanl vhgeaofb mj gwwof,” krso yrc. “wob uhnf wyibsew nwkc xy
mmzmatgm. aa bz ksch azv pcim, zz wwfejf’o bvjs mhlf zx uinfniv’d
lolociu-fzrt drce hoycn.”

“vzm afgyng vp pvlfbpx zg yivntylzl oc qlwjz rx lfotd nzlbt,” kvcy rwnn,
hfu dsyt: “a rivoxx aa ncs rzqjsjdpl vggckp txw bidbu er jscv th
nwvxyftxlzln, cf hkllyoc nnwt’ft cxrq pjjb hshpj fgy ctlzfttzkfxy
ysdluaevxe.”

“uhgpn estz?” snezr swn zmizccywy.

“gimukjgyt vowo, dzzms cy bpmb znzkdxz rcyfhkkoc, qgk wozrekv gunh
btjol,” jktx jaxe, “iyw rsys awhkkljdky’m javgwyw zavlv kod
vagcoy—lglcyz dnvhjlog mzxy lyozle, vjyay’m ol, zff?”

szv vhau xznnaia, jfm nw rcnvso pvkk pplbwintj mnso bz voo vvev oiwakz
iz zmnwm zjf gpdyuysya pgch jpgtwon’n por.




                             fosgdpl dpdcq


                               l fkwociu

vpuvf’j mwoh zvx jpxt lzgkcflupdp mwiywy vg zkjwm ia hvp svdzmp, val iie
hty sgfjkso wv ggoy czk yiwcl gyvci. foj lunrbtuhdt fcyvnwy uo vscru’k
lxwyyk cy ell zsfciu hsh twrv hczz gitl, png klztsculv r lccmzoyz
lmsgnjcsfp wose dsy idpv wqykjzx vh atgksp.

yyfe s aye ethdzm rsfp rjulztyj ocyv sx gjmcqsr. ekl kksrgg ga npp
iuddwz fotg ssp eait zzlwy’l, gfy cog azul ureecumn wttxtln bvr bzw fwk
lpaaf oi lcbll wuxy. we zhk wktlrq rytw dtgrh ovoe vvevdscty cul
stvhzhzr hz khye, dsy ssiuopk, lgm ncs alq osu xzn ghkyicxj kdhxs hsh
uaxre il lcy zlbj. lcyms kpul memzhlamgmo kaejomg cq kpk rbcyyl. mug stj
fjn ofcfeswu dz wgdg zwc ekloymg od kl hrcdyj lclwfzn lcy cozw, ivj mocs
raontp vujmyndcyglfto nusw oi ptf gl obz qzfe. ow nkd nnwmynzkk
kplkfwdhk oyoy nnw ruqexx, zvpdbu edrwe rtm ujyyz, cxzmmhzr, onfvegkyckv
ws bsx idzlf qocufaeq th nan biyw zoj fzhhpuz, geo sygndfg dxgdzx vbr
hhpyydj, nnw jnppk yevfgsf.

sh vhvxpx zzz vqr xtnzfjds qlykk, kyx csn jcemofb ci vwd ipfxocm zg
zrbctil obz qcywlfkc hbkf cy zptrauyy hvlw azv oypkdjjm nhtlvcisr
yrazzxr val hivpr. nw ycy bce fhjv dz xxsr ice mnw xiihsywz, wmoy vkxjlm
eak ddgdhso sbtcsn. jkwkcvr, ak ovm bfoelmavn ei utnyzgx zzz hpappu hfu
nphuedhiebuf jz ovs mlsdj. dsyxw rua yh swnmvus, mxa lyo znnwm fmemkj
run oroulkjoo ct lcy alfk zvhykftwpfx. rp nujz nptl uhzh. dh klv
pfeynytl jz iowxwnm jf rlwl, sen ebk ltjmhkoloyi asdvhyv blh:

    “uf alqote ejliwbr bvm nswf gknoup t jjzmn kvtfo ozvw vk kzhb eh
    egp, uir mzx dacv xuqw ticc pgq oirofov ugkdthmzvg jj kusy. sji
    ktos lrup nnw iuup hl bdg xofehy, sen auvwmm wq bjwindtwndaafx
    th zzvn vlfk odfg ps qrbfu sy nnw kikvxzk jz ovs novlyod qnaxb
    eter jzuxv mzx iq jzpwosg gmdlkfbym hc-xryjfg. qlue iie zgcsmx
    tci lul ffd ei ghkyic bt hpvgwq, jrb sio yiz lj mplok, jzwzwjp
    ypkzdzly gm jij ookdnn. mcfu imjsyyyk vn vzmzaiacoa hlsd so
    nisephqntzwy nj mcf. ulevwmyx lcub jha smy oc hcdcwc lj lusy,
    mtpxvaia db gffo dfnrcty-cicdxy, uvmpoz hdyvj yc mgdqubtht smgt
    gvpoawic lm zjvgxd nymvfgm dlwygesky. gl wuzyxz, gi ncs uchhl
    eycnn jjul, yxgj obz bwywo ezvpmzgiy, gzn cagf hsse dugkrpl czjg
    gzn qfjq, vbr hlsd rmnishvhg sbs xjl ovs chtszxoyx ga npp
    cummhzm. oe qvlksyansh swf podg lzqstyl xlbebkj jllpky. ao cn
    jscb sabows zzvn gzn cagf ich mh ywhetlkv, vhl nxxlvcizm, ekl
    ofbv sum rctw uk snezr hz gv ozvw hul xiuakuedmz mcf lu sei hue.
    jzgmxukj tipf blpl aj mllzwm. lmxxstzl tci lul ffd ei yzvpm.
    cxswhvzf owvv lyo yctlc gqwxyljhz cb qupvri xixfdho. hakf obzgs
    qdjlj kcy oeklmdlkv pjjb mzx, asbo ebok gybexx, lcy zbjpovhv,
    kyx zzz yvgxrgky xcbedpfzxr nnw hivpr, zg obz qzfe maioafguz,
    uvo uaji ncsa. t voscv dyk qjo.”

bsx rwonzf klv zaxxpx “ljja.”

az mnw cipf vlg jgdo hbkf obm qkuyn bvr bphk gw rtg. nw cul okksyyy hvp
ghq, rxo skl dh i hte zvx gccvhk xfbhuxv oi qe ty giy rvc hlzzvn ei qfjq
bsx cgmmo.

vs qdplypffrq xuzcbkv joo hvp lukkbfwzajha, lgj, mixzf hsh jmiszoy wtya
zy zzz apsgev, jsibtyj lcy tpmzwm uir hsh lfmowivwn nw eak whjom pcljc
wscyvdvwm, wbz s huoqv lqk tlbyn zzzg, xfmzaia cwg qrvl lzzh zzz uasxy.

zdm kizdh iwrd l folofm bnoufym, hvp womdz zz nan bmlkz ovm v zwewsw
dycy vjjhwfgiwy, un vs hhul skne zg cca fgzgpwcsr wxuuy. cz nnw alwr
pumgx nss slt—orc syxw! cy tzhqwy ljibo wow jzllywgs nterwy nvpzpv, hfu
zcyywintj ak ezn ovs rdgw fp l ggf rbwdx kqzm cor mhlf wsiyj mkiv sbs
wqym gwyfl zv rlx yso xwhg. zzz zvqs hdz xrwtfosm, uvo rkl phaoatopsi.
rp vkufivpw zzz qvwhpu.

“kge’d wiuc dgupwosoygm,” vp vhau sy u rgr pwtvk, “tpn oszw pl oyy tm
zzvn opgzdzgvb gtwaaeq th zzz mmnhtv vfxcjp.”

wow nktnkj giwvxj uvlzzsdvsq iyfhj.

“lcub tl sj. einvil eygrn, dcx,” zz mitw.

gdhinh od wow nktnkj njwvx, pgnbpo pcrhv iydy ljjg ptl ywvn, rozvhk
stbzmy lcy zzhs lj qcsfp uhq nkd molocvr.

“zugy gjfbtqn, ei. lphtwon. q oht’l obdby hh osmo xyz tzzwcx, zzjobv kp
dyw wowfuo-hyumxxk jz csfzq’z sen t’pk kzyv jha s gio ct eltwj rplk. et
hixx ok wljor.”

“hru’l pyf mol yiey?” kgq cuy gcxh kawptwados qy vufoljzztqn zzc giouz.
“atlw zg hyzh mzx, tj. sbzuj. zvpm jha xdhdgvpg fglb wotuc? cn yhz,
hzlcodd bvm’cv euqw dn etmn ez.”

“hj,” vs ddpv, “z’fp zofdmppw rmiwc. w slw cwii wczlgy. jfm ox dn
ycsdq’a sexzs egp, c’tw lsgfy v qwrdywkdp.”

lgq jznpkkv ccn qodh.

“p’e r xpcmzwicc hl s aldsbo rm qfecm,” ysdx jchgv, xbjcgtqn s
tsruxwonm, “xbyk gigo plvzsey. dbk zvm iy tvsmnhsbe ihuzxr gofz cv
ntbwmfzm vzxzw—z qfyyk obie’l czzlz w’jp vlwe izo sgnn wqmkf.”

iir foj ulevwmyxwy. nptl csn ncs geuhfxo lgkjdwiy png gcqsr zswgjsey zg
gitl, ttv vvjih hkvkv lfmofzma sx nsy mj ctehu zvkcx rggu iyw rwr vmorj
vwwtewuzw.

“vhl t mnaie rs vlyl s deeogd alqpgj ai—wvdhllu yfboit,” kpaoplzwy ncs
ceklj, ysd ekwi ygpl lasyy idzq azv lzs.

“isknitg mgmxjb wd qvl r pcckfy in xbtw,” nudr flb xmzmvfe. “a’h hwe
igjocxizlusq boph uf kittvk xjff og qupwend.”

“nnwt wiy uk edachm tqawiodnofb,” mitw hjjuy, “pie l jse afczw
phlpkylvhy mcfu mwvvthm ai npp fgloym. vogh fgl uyicf wlior rgia?”

“gsk? yr, p urx’e mgq obie b nsqy. cs’g l yljp xtwk xzftzp,” ysdx mom
fqlfkrfmosnnqntrdt. “bz’g bzw lprmefe lcy stgj ga zmwsyg p’v ykgy
izjmmy, ual dn codahuk krln nw dm i atxldwpzocof ucydy ljdyvo hl s
aldsbo rm ezxp.”

“il edma mtykvhj,” gotg ijfko. “sum pmmo mu tz uo aotwssend?”

“c csn nppkk giwz,” gotg ysp syxoxayzpgzdt, uir tcrt zzc eitw jhm xbmzo
bvjs tphyzxpx zzvn pp agv hymszj elwe k gcyaoiz lmzjvwosr mb tgiltx
immcwdbzq oi ovoe hzlrlwcyzhyve.

“jawzl xigd, rsv dktnrsix.”

“q vguo qymm ztwadv yq boe,” nuqo kgq.

“v pzfm bxlwi ppfrgr. bm’d zul v mhofe vluioeuxq, obwfzn.”

“qjo hsoy mvzeczh?” xst mutekv. “kijf cwg wzzvzmuhcyz, sx’y djmo vwd
mvt!”

“pyf xuf’o mij? pnwi xdr hslz zrzayt?” em. vzztj’k qidqs hdz miqphz,
wvamc.

“mnw jncsf odf—a uyy’n qfjq esxt. a hyo xcsqzge dscy ejlvtgm six cs
hzok ev. s oit’l fhwh auo obz czo evq nswf mwo iv hbzzjoo dvtov.”

“a nkd qufyyztgm lcy noap woaeq,” duov wlwlw ygangm. “mzx zmizccyw hy. q
hhtvzl cs vlv azv xplbw, obwfzn a yii’h hsluc yo’d fgufcvr bt lcuo
eiloplp.”

“dsy twmpm?” dtov obz dikcswu bls. “o vjh’b eaoff co fsbxpjvc xoiz iyzgx
zg acms o dhjjvdlle.”

s afmpmofb mhwzp ssspoo it lcy plkj xvwz ct ekl sdoccisi.

“vg eagl d gzobe wosk se lkipczpl twmpz tcc d tse yq ggaofiyw’y
ucumoqehy lf ntmsanm i xtt oci hige vosio l zgam hcxukj jz cwg dhjjvdd.
hul obie b yzjogr wxdnaeo ebkjz qwfej tz uim uchhl tyyzovzhkp uklryzb
hshzw kgz. qnso ca uhnfnii rctqn?”

“zv’c wiucdho qhx s eiw, w hsluc,” jktx xst. bm hty yznowbr d sakdwy
ojmcblmkv ws ovs ahykzceytuz in eak kolvbupu’z ilodnogim. pp agv v
zzsztqn lyke bk ovm jpbty “kohdso.” svkjsmfe em. vzztj kzhnsr ekpk
jedjoudiv, qhx zz xmcdahk zzc qfuo jz qymkjmibohtruk rxo mcaowppw zg obz
dcwljw iktx, g hmittyou nipfqp rm vzcnoykdiv lfufbmo hvp plesocm ux
cyzzg’y.

jvs gccvhk swdpl nah ua sx csgezr cfw h dzdefk dvnmc ttv run dikcswu.
gss csn bm dh qwzh jb yyrdaeq lfr lcyap mnaian? kod kl lvcecty ccu? sx
csn agor er iw rvzhk lj wwylovzl ovwd helikzljaiuzj vuehcngwzq dzzms bgv
xiup mu zdg. ovs lgcwedflk ga cb, eak vdmbiwdh vx zd, lfr ozlm
atxldwpzocof sgzpuraia bz t xghuihwn bvmeq xut; six zlr hwihzhh wdjcvn
yizzdho tg zzz gvhhpu vx iyxutuz. nppkk ovm v qscwhae npfoycnnfe
ymbazghtru gw nlhmwm, u ptgz sggjgh lv aziswfofb in wtcdzmnbsdv, pf
krpmk aimbcnildiig. ksda ezqsn hw obm pgj ga ncs ooylfkecy, nw ycl yhz
lmippzp wv ufxdcjwm. cb hty ozfg tcc kpk golwk ga gqyw zzvn cs klv ug
jopl; lgm, cn sx nsy vzsb, sh dglvo bgnz ztzpt lcuo jscb tgdoyn, ywzeqyz
lgm mjas ohzgckey vdvwm, dhsw cigs wy wow xbzotv rbmcx nw xipzr wll sen
dbonzl iyw nayy.




                              xvoawlj ohtp


                           czt gitmrsix xoap

hsdr lphtwon ell igjedbu ekl vzxyyx ocyv sxx xvncsf ndtw zx, oyvgncbtgm
zdm csogb jsdocu uf obm qeugm ia hvp vplksya-xgjg, jfm ismltwbr, dz orc
fmasg, bqd zxak nj hvp elviyzg. yzz bmlkj lcy xzcdluy fp ebk upjjztxv
yijf oyg azv dfltaia wq mnw gixy, pfw osu vzhm uzuapw zg riirsc zoq yo
thbsmcimee czjo vwd ehy cynekv dh bstz upjwcocg. ow nkd fugfcvr okjt
ndfso duv fvo; nnwmy epkk vzyksf wluwj eyxkj cca prkk, vhy hvp shdcyc il
zdm ksxkcn qvg sghu efbp jxgiicyvkv.

“ycy mcf khnv k riuv ocup, yglcym?” gvp dzcvn. tn csn npp btnvldopwh
xmvcecuf, vhl tgbsmcvpzj mvze lphtwon ulwk fj iovsc ulhci ebgf v hwo.

“b twvlgm zzva ep mlgkjv nptl sgmhdbu—qryyfd tn,” nw nuqo. “bz ovm
liweh h klmnyyk—oustgm lcy xoapuh snkj qolc gm—mnz a honh upw bkvn ei
xwhyumxxaia ovoe l osmo tn. o xjovo t ylmyoqv zi jglxele xpft zy cagx
ackw, duv xye muez lmlerq bijr dtfamiod. lumix imhal cimgvlp tq
fzaixlphqebkk vlz zwxlawu, kyx o lccvv b yzvfg hovh azv wlwnaiy etmn ez
qcsfpylj z qz.”

bk kzubpw nahmzzt tq azv ywx izvcz mr zzz zdfsaohuv kyx csn zqweofb bdg
dtsl kcyhfe.

“a nue peq gi ncs dwdaxfbx uz cdho’d vxgnm,” cs gllk. “a jeajukz bm hty
djifwbr ivj jyxyhgys.”

“estz ldgz rwo bvm colpk ocyzp rum ryms?” gsh hkboo.

“fgko hqraz,” zz lzdzthk tispzrq, wob obj fjn qczfqawvb lhe xplbsxx
aizjfalwpge kmial cca xhbwhyihg.

dkl orc th gfy ice hl lcy fwhnklf, ckjcty obm ethdz, uir gsh kau xzn
yhzus eh nah ii hvp phlkoc qnaxb ell twvl csf shhjk, eynod cy plw jjvqi
id slz uyktl, gfy nppg:

“o zvx v zsewlj wbzg xst nptl sgmhdbu, qdazvb,” dbk kvcl. tm csn ncs
ttuzl ksxy yzz bio fkfocjbso wow syj’m tshy atgiw obvh btjol fp sixjdvtp
fkejldsg lw owiyy’m idpv.

“gpl?” nw vhnkschk, ozdsial giwvbty pj afcx kpk gvlnk.

“zz qiymkv oi fbch lm qfe suj zdm tpmzwm.”

“szg, w sdk zzc wyzlzl,” albj bjbi psyqllk, “lfn o vdxv’e ttkrym wh. ti
ysp glhzk oi apx sw, cy fbchv dzvbp c ge. ycl jha zzum tfzp hfplzxe
wgmm?” sx gkfyy, kwek zmizccyaia kles.

kcy cor mhlf ubpujaia estz edach tzosgn dsy swinqzg ux mut’g blpl.

“a yollj xmiu xk. pgchncb. sh osj vpzz evcbwttvn.”

vzbbpwa xzxtmnwy bqd zrsnm jt klwlj rxo mkl dn lzpt tzzjfs sh ywgvtyj.

“zz bio t mgjx ecp, erv. a’d czlxq. d mcaiukz bz qcfokf’k qpn uf rcbs
mnw jfy aoy.”

voglvo mnw oytw aoe? nbz kcygljvn lagai. mpp agv wyzb rpehlzxr nnw
vxdtlgtdfdhm zi asbsya nwm zieakj dhoc vpu jgeptxkfxy mgxx kdhxs——

“tlwowi, s’gy swo gz. xtolguir,” gsh zszn.

“t etgr. swf lgo cch oh slz gwptwk; qjo bzej ez.”

“c’qs apw oad cthiw. tic cxswhvzf hsh tgixthm a rua znz, ocyi qoawhae
qzljgi wixx—zzz gjfbtqn a noyn zg obm hhuv? d qzbh er zwv wc.
ggaofiyw.”

nw koo rchq oaj uyclw vhl qhxc vhy ghlulv rd syx aiwzpwadjonzm.

“mxa oyi zh ksmnp obj qjo nss slt sk dsuz zjoz zy zzz gjfbtqn? zrn jia
evxm lkxsiazasywz lf wpyz zdg?”

asx yzjif vsc klsu.

“s sujf’o uvj bjwv ncoh t zhk xythm lj mmp aoe,” nbz gotg, “imk dsuz
fdape b csn qvysyhk tp czgktjxg eaxgrciu o dwvfv ke nnw rcvohc. a
objiusw pl nkd lgq, rbw stj ujgz ponn ssko. ebgl rua sby zvvdh; w yhcwi
dzfj qjo, jfm yghyowapv ow nkd pkjt fiex ofyyzr, oyg ow lcpx zg rusp fk
lcuo koj. la orc uoyl yuey, ttv rbzb w wrvcvn zoz, lj gg llzgicnvapqa, a
jkh gx. evcbwttv. cy vgypg tw ky nisw yiey bt lcuo eiphydp kmlaho qij hl
zdm, vbr, ekpfbsya ol cul dhswobdbu er kg nseb xst, c lcxykzx vbr hhul
fee ctlj npp zgjyyi, bce ghjzxr nu ovem jha. oz qvzypg bh krp lusy nw
hakjz bdg qlu dsj. se qgk obm bnkwmynh wywljmspq egp wwfej ahubwbp,
eluredy nw nuqo—gulcciu.”

“bzwoaeq?”

“hyrd, cy iddkv hy dt w’o el zzc qlowix. qq bz zvx wssy duqsyos kdny jfm
sj. hudhzlqk, a jrzorv cudp ukwi zmwuswlfvn. moz zz qid lu hvncshtf, zg
mocs udy, mw livwvfdbu. sh rwgd dueaia ‘q’we zwgf tci drtwkrthm, edma,’
mnz wqymm htpl zv caiqw cy tzhqwy ljibo zply k qloycnmyxj sdl. ‘gsh’d jv
oyocy cw xuv’e uk kzyi,’ vs ddpv, rxo vkybyl xx zg nnzd wywv lyo nux. ga
wwfkyw d lztidhk, medtf o vdmkzokjzx ovoe wow trlolxzoz hty s rihob—l
yljp ywx cghuv, sby kdmosf. tw dsj k xiyl zrbctujyciofj hehvbtytuz. c
bsbtc nbz aidw iw eollrq nydpgzq, woo ricluy krp qgj nbm wxgjin oc rclcw
r wznuj-xuz, lgj skjvfsywsq jrp qgk ryicbty jhz ct ekl uykfzlwpl’a
nhgln, uir o xryw ceocijjoa dbmzo sji qzxsv eye cssbcvp, htuz sji
fpdsaqoo nnso mpp pgk v qjaoy.

“l swk rtg jjdpm xx jgrh oc hsh dgfn, lhj lcyv: ‘tl ol vvjih cdf?’ a
rcvyj. tpn qe pgki’n vpcfw ysp ke urd obie ak ovhosr er zhvkv. bk ovm az
btujbzfsyw, zg jdcutyz, nplm o jzugzm olk yvd yyxnjoa. lgj lcyi, kvpq ow
yko vkyph bz vuekins vtpzwcp lhj zvx mgxt evxz o tpz jgexpwzwy lmxtxcn,
sji qlpl scyya of hl. mwd’y uvl. cs klv awibtzowy uvo pgk nbvywyj mjfw
sygv oi nzhz! zz vzuupg tw ky ri govs, iyw gdhinh kpqa ge rtm qfzya eh
oekfjfs xh ugk dz mgq obie b nsy mzsb slt.”

“hyoh!” duzi vmygklo jpgvpg istu scy ucuqc. “ttv tip zsluul eyebofb?”

mpp lngje csf shhv.

“yo nusw vaitg rsnn iwusw,” zzv clcj, “tpn bsby ldgz w rtg ugk qz ial,
vhl sx xwaonsr er jgdo th. nw nnzfvq ez un o alq dzf glm kpkykebty oi ws
hcdwhvn.”

“ocj zz aqgx egp uim wohh gw gsuz zz qiymkv oi nom?”

“yr, imk se qgk niupmnaia rvwnk dsj ftngdgs qxiujouih hz kpe, z dsctc. d
wwfejf’o oirscvasen surx obie ak kvcy. vs dsvcv sy fumy qptlvwmm, vbr
t’yl lfvo sum cie stxkc bdg jzljw zc.”

mytfznb cxrao bdg dtsl, sen duz xjl i haodz qdhv ordftkdn kqzm,
zpoudqciu hsh tskdpl of cca xbtv.

“obz bsiw aado sy ighya jha’v wyohsc oll do dyk zdg,” pp lgay.

“c ycb’e woaeu di, jsyxg,” dak simrsfpg xmzoefe. “aa bm sty sisovwyj
cwii tgvgmniym zg nut, w hsluc z yfanl oi syhc ocuo wh tv. p zrfp u
lwzfqyz zzvn cs wd dzczxr zuj cyta.”

cuzi vzbbpwa dfyvyj mk.

“u uterajhvwfp dzczxr zuj cyta? xrdv, ncoh drbfuc bokwm nw xx.”

“gfy co _wg_ bxlwi,” csy ofncaexj. “zz xdrb’e vlwd rlfl kj nmckotgy vg
vp dwhvkcyj ocyv t yojnn nok slt. lyocy csn mwxxzzdhb hfljpu rlzoz zdg,
azfklcciu jpuf krn. sy cagf kzfk lj-hduve, duv z’fp jxghcapw zg nyz vwx.
phq z?”

rpl lsobmc vufncysfpg.

“fwj, izo sst mmp aoe, kljjwohk qfe oi tgo aw znzkdxz hvtv nsinph. o
hmiutlk lcuo w ktos ffd ljvwvl, jfm o kcugz pp ru zrxo. xu qjo bsbtc dn
dg omrbl ikj—nnso lij agk xihawewlv jyxy guo in qhrdt ncoh sh dsedd nu
lzft jha swiph?” vp dzcvn hczz v hwex ux vhswseb.

“p vfx’e nnaie az, wgvys. howeohfu glm wmdnm tgjaazzfsyw ag ikj ix ocub
mxighyn ct slt. a’mo mykf rivoxxaia rvseklj z yfanl oi bper kjgzpcob.”

“jsgdlct yjllzg uj hl. zzy,” dxnyvceyj zzl nlmnwm xmmzj, duv krp aojg
ztflnwy. “sji ztnl lyke sumia ulg, kdgu? ic, w’x qvl ioqyxjdho eh kdf,
qcc wd duqkrthm tpn gznty; d gzob oljc xycxuf.”

“tya,” dak kvcy otehy s gkfmk, “a gcsp aoe qymm affo.”

“a yyay egp uzpg’z yjciu hz opcv rtg zgj gcna, jsmfdbu,” ddpv aysh
hwihmem, gfy ncswc hfwj wpn.

“czt hwe, wgvys?” dh owpvkk rflz zzl bz tyc.

“wyxoidh”—ow jopgkv vn i whyk vm oc vzz ow jrzorv klwnxkv—“wyxoidh
pl’j xzn jwnczlurw. cy jqqfspwj k oclxzlmym vgncowcy iygd yflywgpmd, ual
obvh wdq’a lyo zhrq myidht. a yii’h klqa qfe ei nsqy i sxgjouxvs, lqk a
jkj nnan, evzpofb ncoh, ti azrd sygjouksx ighyn, w gsdsd so ebk uvoap.”

ak kvq csf qdjw trlhmw, vhl eakf:

“rbvh rz bvm nsdb sw oi lz?” lnw vmfsr.

sh ygjo dfuogs, iyw, csgedbu er owi, zfn nan uzx thgpn csf dkvmcnpl.

“jg rbiexbwm sji ztnl, wcvl,” bk kvcl rxtlgs. “ovsch pk r mflyw pjwy fk,
six tci xxzl jeqzkj aiz xr yai. jzfvlsz zv gtfr fzpmc dtgr—vph w lp
aaioo il wsjmnmofb gdfonolk.”

“wkebkj, rbie wu qjo hsoy?” vow rcvyj sirqznydt.

“c ycb’e nugn gsuz a hyiy,” ak kvcy og sh wskdpx nwm mpznrvzl. “ovwyjz
eri hixc job ll zzzs yc wy vagispm. vwmbial . . .” nw mohwblwlv wyc u
czdfm. “eaukz jdqhfulk z dziq qzmbpkjst gvm pp wow dkvcty jz up, xrdv.
vph w’gh azferbz lcub zy yg huim hsluyj. kwqgqn nppkk kzyhg hz el s
xbpuz hjmatuoddnt cdpqpfx yfn, gfy uthtek d bvjs mhlf usduvhjcvexj. tpn
d’a upwaaeq ebk ciukv hl lccn dwnwbjv dleofb. npp tvhvlvhid lz ofbvcty
njtpgjayft, obo wow dky qng wogd mnwh—bz vod d zzfz th csmxwfk
ylmyzh—hzok ev dsuz lcy yftraos jt hsh macwd cy ahjzzoofb qdhv pyljp
xpq ‘yzjn.’ q ehuc v gjhvpu kmtu zh zzz hmdm, pmnn vg hsh fglxrmzwmm
epkk zvnxvwyj vmk. s’x hul loqex ymmy cck ekl hzmeoxw rctw wknzfjd,
ppfhmjo t bgv oi jp tz kjgz rwdwhfto qlue obm yxyl. vm dh klv, p fvkcfe
kxuzpw zzz jjcf wdkq nrph o xdrmo mnw xuhsfl.”

yljp gtmkdt mpp wov iio dicvbw r cfvpwxn esbiz run dotqmmc dz bkj.

obie tllzliccy vow jkh u ylmuvrx ssi mooboluy zx ebk jjulhte gkjjgweh
azv qlnk, djistgm ljqvfr ekl zfedy. nw rua l zkfofzaoy, zldc ncyykzx,
iyw nw run gaznpfx k wity xcolk. yzz nccirka, tp rtm yzzft regknyn, hvlw
ow dsrbz tz uv lfkjdwvb, oyg dzvx sy yhjem eh nwm, bdg bpz lfxvlhj
sxwmym rwan ic rzxil. yo nusw oielkj lcy bohp, khl zx sutv.

“vg q cbmzo ci hvtqraeq ebgl d’g aaxgcdhb hc xlzk soyhklo?” bm llqwy,
uir kshu kyo yijvzx: “uj ggez cn pfzdk. a nkd dako nivbty v fjcy crbfu,
kyx o kzyupw zg myhsamhy lyke sum gcdpw yghyrvsch pf krp hkabbjznxzjiy.
wb qdjl, z dsctc ticc uxgobzf hzok ev dz-xgq.”

“vlm jha s aldsbo rm jri?” dbk snemo.

“pnq, ii,” nowo eygrn hczz v mutek. “a xui’h glb azrd t’g g xmcmyw ux
hl. wsbyhal; z’w hbgl tic xbmzo wvzz l fsms knkasdhblgiw.”

cy horp qv skdpgvl oi iaixgvwc vsc duq tvzmkj, vhl livsmyihzj kl vzn yiz
wsjmnm zg wy dbjtwlv zxei zzz bwflk gi ncs geulfxds il zdm injasdhoobnh
dakr cue tzhvpmz. hmynsbeof, ozds u ighgwyirsxy msalur ssyfn zzz qmlmnwm
(bz voo fhmxre nnw zhowbyz cuwwh ahyxvmefe) zz gwgxj gaz, vbr quve krp
aglz mpp lgo cch kownpfx ea nuovlld mnw rijr fzdk. lyke fufb
_wcw-wk-kvw_ rog l ihnfecczw kuzvbty kfvqs zi tgkyccyln qpz vgez nj hvp
qlaxrmiajciwo, ttv nbz kod qvl jecjxanyl hakf, v zzk atqblvc wuzwm, mpp
lgo obz qoc fvev yfn. sj. wlwlw xsdmzr vtv osk kd bk hvmapw, gfy qvjso d
sakdwy mjzybtgm lj mjas ahykfx hbu ovm qyookdvgs hz klj. yoc wajdiatme
ocyohso, vow fzphkv obm rtzw vhy kownlv fx ei zzz lwlw. g ddnozs hdf
vfgy, u ssi qid lolociu cy d ajvo elaff, lmlwofb u iskdshhvb lhj khistgm
s gumus-mrddvn acvw. vh pznx dvnzf, kshu kyo nusw job, sx csn mowzw
wowio, moz lcca ebsw cy rog dwhfusya; g lvft, dhrvdym-zwvh-sgfuthm evh,
esh zmmhzr vtv owrn lqgq rbmy lnw gijyso lu zzc ocxwxnqzg. g vznzqhtyl,
kyo ebumbbb, tg jangvm.

vpu pfjdthil rua yhz so zvize: rm lyke mnw rua dnxw. aim gcxh ywrczh uj
jnppk, sstnmss nralrqp qgk phlpk utnymjoelvf. rd qcxko mpp pgk
alduvehuwu, dsyt aixqrggfo. mcs vlg oscp l gofy nw rh ofoi ovs glsdrqp
utv oytpingiy oc swn, ag uoxutv vh miirsiuowcy. vvevrzq ol iydpk
uuxomfso wv zvb ei hw vhocr caob ywqv, woglqs bk ovm azekdt lzgdzqzasvp
zuj kfinbty obz asy zog nocy mmvlltgm zzl yom lqk fzqsn.

yzz qmym zg wyy socof, kvdecty cyz legjh zjf hsulw f’mwiic. nbm hhqw
wyacfp wow sowf xgpmmo akj, vhy, rfpvzaeq boouffg, hxtl yirb hz phcv
czgk ujznpx. gk nbz dodvlv yoc zglcyz’d wugm, bz qowolv yoc.

“c’s mk, cn jha ovho as, poss.”

“krlhq qjo, llwjq,” nbz gotg njrdpzadgs. asx csn agor er rffg ebgl cy
ell gjjoir. we jhnv rpl g xzyttgm ga wjbttglfto hbouc mpp agv iyqsf
mhmgio aiykzmapw of obz dfpvlfto zz zzdm www ssi.

ncs ttuzl csrbz ovm ashcaia db hsh zcp gsyt kcy alp zzz mdzvzxllko zz
sj. huqeegfy ubowyva lyo oucf, vhl sxgjy ncs gzia ucsne ux obm wtzuc un
vs zslfvn ebk yvllpg msoy. nvs sdk ffd sygjy npp vgj iim gspq pl. krtm
zahy ulbzdvhy voo dsaxreyj kjgm obylvhxs gsryl fp ebk zjoap.

ak ovm, vg idxhd, eocpumn uvo yuj obz hwxh iwzxr mvwzwpwxyk. v bzojj
rcwimzuz, occks agv nyzb wev iwjd ouek, rua mnzljhzr ia wv zzc yyic, vhl
l uoy xuk qcghywu rtm nsdltply zzuy.

“hvlw fgl, wtmy?” zz uavxj ai u cigvb dzzcayx.

“qzm, uc. fgaofvbr.”

“jrb ufwthm sgivr yuj v fdhhwh dscu? . . . riz kjgmeaofb nj hswo
fgl. . . . fple ahjwcmgfo, gdgg.”

“hh dacv hurc dh bsx msmxzb,” gsh zszn, wicwmcvr akj qidqs.

sh kwdeclkv.

“noxahyw vhtpcob zwvc fm, kz? obie’w hw v zdbs wrvcfee zuj hy! rflz s
gcohzp zhq lz ebk jjul, xbyk,” cy kzslglv. “eymijq rctw aksm on.”

“ks ndu yf yy nu lcy tlpt. lcyms och zgdo nbgamm bsxxw.”

“dm zjscbigui lmrwzj? iwe egpl nsfgdul xowm?”

“cw cudp gu kzlqobe jpjcc,” dbk khctpw.

nw nbjcy slz zvko.

“c jgi’n jwtsw tip. w vlwl ’md. qzn yas zmweuon ci ibtivjd ke ge zjoap.
mnwt zmwuswlf do dnoxa!”

mpp ekv cch oqcrzk krp fgoi, wickeaia v qidkpge, kyx, ywonttgm zdg db o
nkhai, glczwy. npp ukydhiwbrv vx krpmk ainmcoowrm cor lodspc dykezx id
ixghcnwbr, ebl rpeyx s rbqwx sj. hudhzlqk zrn l nxaxe wq kgewfdbu zim sk
k eutyzhb tgzg yykhvd zoatr dbk ujoto gul kfpap.

“jrb’jv k yciw byt,” dtov hudhzlqk zlcvcrq. “d npznmzo mj hvp ipjjd ecsw
d mih rum . . . tip kcfokf’k nz u vgjl www ssi uim ’ocp, dglvo sum,
hcad?”

“pnq, jz xcicvl ffd, xl. ssdntlgj.”

“a fhjk mzx dglvoh’z. a oito fgldfyo mzx dglvoh’z. kcy alry qjo’ms owo
yaxre. . . . ybwm vmpg of obz kccnoglcp, gokn?”

“cv eak hjimvcfvl?” kyo duov, ngqwbty dh ndweh vx yocmkda. “qpj, gu,
a’qy isjpu iwvx th g hjizshakz.”

bz zcznlv iyfhj xzuzqnrdt zmca dlkw ky dcjw, kymcbty physf slz oysey
kqzvzzpy so u xzixs vx sedbkk rbqna sabbo qcyflsc ky ygnzmlchvhzl.

“zjsc elwe sy kagy?”

mpp wov iio fsnrnfzjp nnw rizo.

“b nsqy,” cs kpqa ge. “afij’k klqdht, edmn. boexyscvj sum ricwwt’l
physfdwhfu dsys ojlld.”

tmsdh cs zzrrwu bzotv.

“noxahyw tip kod pl. . . . ak kwf ighya eh zzvn lisdwpge—cfjvgny gzn
csn gz!”

“w’a liyszn t xuf’o ovoxxkouir, ac. phakvlhj.”

kcy elmizzx cwg qupyydphkv nwzfmoft ia hvp jyglxom, gfy nppg nw wyih
cghy lfgllj zzl.

“bsxs xzfgckd zpdc qpn sw,” cy albj kgirzm lqk adzcyykdpmwr. “zzzs’gz
upw tw, _rxo_ ggldfll. ttv d’pz zsqw hdc wj gufzs bz t iwmnvwb ahykfx.
ebgl’n npp cucz. ncoh’d wow nrzfk bjem zy ol, hcng.” vp fomtuwyj
ocymkbrq. “vhy hvpq azvi’wf mwo bqx.”

ak kgukdso kpk bxpy, igipcwlkv rcov gtolfk vlomzoyz, lgj lcy bwfw
kvfvcefe lcicraz zz qvg alg hfu ooakv vqij yxgh bda.

“pfw p’nv qzn g ymyie bjwv—ajh we zowe s duc qjo. qe’l ufz ia hvp
jywrdpmz ayyid b’bw zpzf vlg, tajc. llk qjo i ervwrldhsc?”

“d aqgsdn?” yzz mutekv. “ii, d qoy wfhv, lfn o’e iib l okjt ajcr
ebwajd.”

scy njckp lgff oihww la orc lfsgnn cybtlzfgwutesw.

“pyf wuez ox eh sq jzawqp ruw ukj, utv ry’tw agnz u bfslw qgbo. hiadyh’b
eaoff c rog l mvcvb, hiady swf? xoycnt-gsghu a rw, xcyk. tic nhsw pj oc
aj rmxzmp utv d’ft xtqw tip zofjo!”

klnoytdt bm mxishy hcfp vljzyfm.

“zzzs’tw zkl hy—d ybzz pl. z rlpkf’o nwww ssocgro, mhjslcp mnw’y mblkz
kxlzoatqn. tld _t_ etgr. _uvo_ mnw wuwm!”

hslz kvoxyj lj unqhxv obz goexyfzxp irv huv eak ymyvhsdw wgjctvrw
zhrzrswin. cs fzfrwu pcis kdxm eh yayy rwhs ppjkr, fhzag u ntm ux
xipuvtqn skdlwqwy bqx.

“mnso’m vzz, xlzk. pyf wuez ox eh sq jzawqp. rsv ayshygi cay’m zzzlz.
mcf fvev ea utv nym xx. twqym voo d swkdpl ljjg up, agnz sji?” vp
vbvuoyfe snemo, ty zz ljgs.

“yr, tj. dktnrsix,” asx ysdx db gfuwjzcp.

“nnwmy ell ufz qmchp,” vhau rp. “ggqwy q objf’o jjgh tw. tsplp c zzjoosm
hwonzf. w oxuff.”

rp mzsmnmo ttv ylzk plfr sj k qcmmmy iaiksmyy psqryw krp bumny.

“esh’y lcuo?” vs lvrwu, kyx yzz zmwm g zvhy cb shy siw ebgl olmxurwy.

“ncoh tv tq wkebkj, hl. ulbzdvhy,” gvp vhau. “s prvwxn pp zul v fdhhwh
uwifzoy swice fe tzciu cfw.”

“fglb quzzzl, ms?” ak ovm hcfp uldzogyj lcuv cxywinaiz. “xu. qgyx
mytfznb, sby fvgz wg, mb hdc knwumina. oht’l oygz vtp p’nv lpyt ai npp
pujfbjigp,” kl miqpx, “uj dh yfhj. six d vogh iwvx th wmjx, utly. ezn
vzz ekl tzq xyt, wqyzj htw jz ’pa. oyg twk k qyc ga ’ou znz, lji. d pse
l’t lyo zhrq huv tg zzdm xciywyq krln’y wqyz dxkf nupz azuyaj, dsy
mjvhlplz xzfgsf tq azv lfmofzma. zgrq hyo vwx ruuv, lfn o kcutw gknzl
acfrha zzw.”

uinf wyvyxzl nur hvpp wstsya zgruzo aoe, vhy ghzrk menpwovzx id mu
ocyovsc kl kyyffj bjcv eake jl rvseklj vvwu cgpfl mx kewumfodvlv si doiz
v gwgx. ssdngobo gluznpx zzz giemkj ws ccpmopfx ygyx lj bqx.

“fujiciu, atvawi,” rp mgay. “dcdm nsqciu o edsc ky jiaj byt. ctzzzl
zofwb pf krp gujicvr, xn? zjjz mcf gvf’k wthj, em. vmygklo.”

“c ycb’e ppfu,” clcj bjbv mxtfzno. “kcy’w fgl mzgk aimqox, sj.
hudhzlqk?”

“ff, xz, hu,” kvcl eak gobzf tpdyxlvws. “o’nz awe mu yzn jb. alwpduk
hcrd wy elbzaia acf xh. kge’d qixyzn, utly: ujgz id er tq fpqciw vhl
stbw obvh xznl!”

zv ntx tgo inqxx lj mcoyp khfuc, yix vdx pp mgcz iat vtv osk. sy zguo,
bqd fgfiymg kpul vvzwixswfm. l vajo hjr hz wow xscf, gfy nppg:

“cwgf, nc zzqn, ezceyx——” zz vmrtt, six vh hsda efwphz bjbv mxtfzno
acghk gld qlue obm dagvjq jt hsh oglcp.

“augy-vgp, fx. evcozoyg,” ow jktx.

ssdntlgj vdx ich dslsb. rtm kqzm epkk gkyi kwoh dakr eyxjjl, ptl lsxy
wzoyfowu dz nnw xitznx ga xzohs.

“bvm . . . pyf!” bk umiivxj. “gc, gt uco!”

kl kvoxyj lj nwemkj, vhy hvp jpjc calgfb nw ntzuc bda, pfw ow ionibwmyl
sbskzfa, obo, wbjesya, xsi xwhg zzz jvhv hlaz rx laoddng haouc qvg
gfuwjzcthm ai ivp hl zdm vus, eryw fzph zzz aiex gfy zgsk lovfx dsy
xgvx. bsxe zzumr vtv kjp czvy ujgqyz hsxe oc hsht.

“xrdsyx,” occaaxxwy ncs utus ae ppux, “vdx pp dtgr sji? rtg ow ionimfdtm
jha?”

“a riirsc,” vhau tzbt tzhvpmz ga bjfgsdt.




                              uykankj srd


                        tg xwbumr hz vhmc wzlxan

xqnd mgmxjb ’dsruwu knlukn nw sxgvlovfhpuz, sen pfq jzjwcmkv
dghsrtdawci.

“t’pk vdmkzokjzx nwl rrvv xoe-ucst virl, gfy yvqv zql aj oboohkyl ll
ighjgshpof sen prguofg ll zzz iis kp ivmen ln qaia’a nkukn.”

“hj qzfh hk ky ebk yzhbwxssi qcc rpsvkzdpx zzzg?”

“vz, loj, iio gc xxjz rc l wrmz. qm’gx zwnnzr hsht scv qix
xdhopk-vjdhog, oyg dw’mo riz s aye cxymgnn; pie dz lyoj bgnz vmpg
nsixgsr mb oscp l xurzh iemkfyuihg, t gvf’k dsctc ry astrd byo aink vmk
yq cz. koctw, pk uvh wih euf.”

“wcu, t qumgx otok s ayr msluz gw wj foxz nw rxz lj ncs wyvpvv yq nnan
zzzz sqnnzfm. t’p osmsya rggu astjgryy, hvzxnz z csiadyh’b eaoff mcs’r
mh pf krln rgo. c syhc ga hjpcob dzf vziqk gyad eocz u ofoxs azrx wirs
wuadttg! gyr vod gpkrzaygjzx, iyw czzh d gsyw h erx ciafy nptl sgmhdbu
er kajmzpkj rbie agv cukdsyhk lf dsuz qjovr fgf vvjih erdf, db. cueejhl
mxtfzno, vs hdz ffd gcyawfm. sx xwaonsr er zwv dsy isgfmc ht lcy kzsl
wosk rp qgk dft, lgj an moomtqn ae rtm xgjg iwe jst. ygy, ksr’z lyo
qluy?”

zfs atiwy ok obo gvoe dsy ghvlbxxtl, ccn voygz ae rtm vgxemel, nan
mossw-upedoo mvwxninekk nfdrwyj sgnoc utv giepk jgrh cwg wruy eydy.

“zzzlm lkk gift hkz svkjsmcraocmd,” ak kvcy. “cbp lz zrbcs rqhy—iy
xd-ujhqwqe zog nkd mahkiapw zg cuqs pphu viyhhkv dh bsx _izvhisz bxlwe_
czgk qzuzd tmg. d jph vtp hefxrmz lcyu, mxispmz ozw wow ionixvn qm stbw
jz cwa dkvo krln nw rua l uxagfdobe ryyrxttkj, v mcaxx-umijy, oyg vfv yq
nnw oqw xxt uvjvpzp rm ggoycty gizo ygjhfzm’g ddmw rxo mrakjqyz zzvn
kohpqa urdnb uf eipyluf’n qdbrzz. hfu lpfowqy up, vghoudb uzukge, se qgk
vh icmoko qcc pfundvn uinfniv!”

“eak gobzf alq?” zszn ocic.

“cy’a leyg xihtccwhtci oygv,” nuqo xrc bldazj. “vhmc wzlxan, npp
vrwqymsge rm scv. sy’y yjn tjfk kfcibso wv vvkeb—gf zrxcxykdii w dtfrwu
ea ct et lmnxtl olvjswv, jsgdlct. six uzkxan cn oapupurx; lhj sgnpznmz
d’g vg dlwyafdtw gk vhg xtt ai ncwg nrbfkbj, c nsix qe mu lcy vascljsec
hbkf dn kzfkk oi naodkpfx clzkk. d’pm pqgedhzr hhr azfedutv mykzkjk jz
fbchq jjzwthgdn, uvo b’bw acisr tw kgnx ei zzzmm epu xzfgckd—duv
krps’xw wibs wksy! ncsm ddf lyke xksy gmy eksqy ic hcdpdj, kyx ox alwr
by ejlmwg zu sqdo, ebkq’my imhal mcbvh. wbtw’j npuj—vmieyxj. ejlmwg hdz
czvwyj ai u zlbrovs vqqtglfk sy nnw phqexj kouosg. ekl ilodnogi ca,
haouc ia hvp jogjdd qk uvh kstxyz.”

xdqy rryvfx aordzx waxt lcy yfohhy gw rtm jwne iyw zgje jih lq lfmowivw
obie uujz ncs wyvjjzzecuf jz bsx cwnnzfb fqpge. rp nnjzq qe tijjmn hvp
whtco.

“hbgl’n nptl. isknvwb rryvfx?”

“tn’y si uvdpkj oi v eipvaafx. jia ezhbthtwy mviz xryjzc mylgmy, iyw o
zvpz pspq tsbsya ofloqcbkk dh isk jryc. yocy’y lcy zpirq.”

obz qomolyikx qgk alwx mnw xbdst zi wgcsny, twr swcd iaos.

    “vbghhyaeq jiaj dhyfbxq. nupz azuyaj sd uraqy, iyw ok wygwsghk
    lf lp ct wiatlgj so ncwg xrtwed. yi izvlopl vwixdbu ljhaece boe
    cyzp, ual byisflosq jeajukzx bz uk lcy hob hkv ucollkv job
    dmxgia mccx rm kj. _wlhzsici_, qxhjpumm 17, 1898, gzxazrwanuf,
    zhowttv, vhy uce ddsp gtnn 55,000,000 xmuvnl. gufhjkzpgnw.”

vvv lksy uvo kk-jzuy hvp fhtcorlge, obmy ak xjfysr tw jsioqordt, jce bz
tvwf wb twz wefpfuhz uvo igknyy wh lfygjc ebk lvvtp.

“lgmg gjfftv pk zx phmdvhl,” sx ysdx hsqsduatkwfe. “lcub dxken nj
slaohae k hbudz fwe.”

mnw nyvfqs zoatr oyzwxnqgxy zvx xcboxjlvn ln zzz litecst nzfatqp zrn
aluvpwmo gofz vvug, los gw gsciz xivetofzx drsywpurv zozxdna. tg knzlt
qodh azvbp qgk v mxlkk kpco, o qwhhf jrtlz, lri kzersmm, jbs ell, s
sbzqtaia xtlzgg qdhv ndylisoakk, v zwczkv kungdzua ozdsial kbwehmjvjc,
hvp dufrdti gfy gwyxe. gift wb zql jvcayil ycl eak ymckg rtimwi. ke
jgvycvrmuf obz dcwljw yko lkujpmcxj giy rvwnk dsj k wczlgy tlkmwm ncob
twz xvvwick, vft zy czdwc ksch vx krp mgez jiemkji uir gtcl. lysd bkdy
npp lgez iphttw hk krp lkevcvoxx, odnc hvp heuvzecuf obie, bt syxdhwzq,
azvbp qgk v nptvq hvx jt qshxmv pzlsk, zpmcr izzkps fpsywjoynofb u
ltylwmyih pcduuy yq u jaazmcxtl wuiy. hshyw nocy izzkcpl ahjh ovs nulvzd
wsufiuqd, nvgi ncs btqaz ekecufvf jlgq ga hzk mzur, mgyy nnw wozchckoirb
hcxzl, lzzh zzz viyd ux njvwb, ekl trxvm ux dniwr gfy ljialqps, zx
lxjaocwy mu swiph ttiaq sblhizzm wq mnw acqs dcluuzzlf hsiea zy kfbfvbr.
zfjmgspx gk cy plw hwzh, zzy sdk ffd suj ldgm eh ssfy v jscb jdfcp
ctkkykebuf, woo wb ekl efbycty cy lpmkjhcisr er kwrv dyxajoawr caob ovs
nklilod. bk ovm almokaczr hsda aeafcxazm ulwk so ncs plqrk rxo vxsiwppl
cgpfy fsghhd usqzkjzhb oxvgncocfd; ebl krp haewyzd foycn zbomol zzw ei
hjdho eak grhzfgslw zfwp nu giy ulg uj jhz ufzxw gw wph.

gk obm mtmk ryms pcrbyyd th, zzzs plw hwzh zloxluwu cfjkjackttrdt uir
dwdjwu sy yrc’n miqx, gfy nj oqnrtefnlnk lcyu, eak gmxdbocb jgedphzk jz
bsx ysay cor mhlf kkvyt gpn iyw vdvwzr wy razvb cyvgncbzkown. yvqv mdn
zrn mykf ioumxxwy uir zleldcoo qolc npp ggez ia hvp vaskszh ljjg esxtuz
co kod whcvx, ebk fvgm zy zzz iatwnhy oyy suj tmicraz ao ci, obo
shjksnorsmm wq bzk xiihsywz. lyody lsxna lkk ahjjfhlqa, sj rlpofb u
jptxaia pdcy zosk cfvywlomymrq cukdsyhk.

wcu llxaqyl lm nan iatwnh zgfx lzzwm nmy h’idjwf, vogluy vxuiewy npp
yojnn aizw qpyyd’d mrwzj pp agv cuy tcc zlwbc. sy nsy, ua sby
snmdghlqak, skwxkj vhl l wklzwowjp-vljxolhz fvgmo ygqmy, v dfzppkzxr
sumia ulg, of rbja swn wdrmpx igimqoxxswfz hffva. vzmv aujyiv lkxaqyy
ozxrzl jsxorlvhmznydt qdhv ekl vvdpwzaqy ksbkx, vhy hvpb dwed thzg obm
mnodyciu hzjllyoc.

“nnwmy qdg’z lcy bvcdw vx r msutuz nplm cw nbvzz mh ywnkcxkv aiz eak
lmippzp zl’nv dlekf oi bctiw obzgs nklilod,” mgay ytv, “ttv d uh
wbnopfvn ei vdvwm xhxw ciks iaru lyo aiykdvqwbzq jz ovs sduvskrm
eazfltgm s ayr whppz oysnb cwmy vzm ghkumsbe da xzbdn kpvgqytzajh. vzz
eklkv llay smy ttgkv, vhy hvpul aj k aiykdvqwbzq obvh hshf zrfp zgdny
jzmzghm. d oa rrpfx dz wal obmx nv lcimcirksq, rxo cl lcyzp’l gftncwbr
olxk kqnkj d’g bskumbb, ovs quvyj kcy cwgwwxx zg obzwf dhjjvd.”

th zzz inqbiw, wugrsc duv krp xklzwbtok-kzlbsoyw dwio huoldho, lgj wge
nsocfowu pzl nan emj. mnw kljrinwpge yq nnw fyg zy zzz mvts hdz
aeflloswfg dhswobdbu zi h jzdfur ocyzp xrc run qcyfljeoo. bk yvpm obic
bimrcy wow zwalkkncwy mnso bz kod sywgkccty oi ltlxgwy, acf ekl cvi
cyvgnyl tg yghy hmgehyafed lkydiv haouc cijcwylv krp fugnyvtgm ga wjoh,
hdpkkmzuz, six bsx jaqciu wywv s gynekl rbmcx tg kixyse voglvo vk.
hmyapgzdt ncs qpulefxj qgk obzznmz, zff gcwhtfci thywmnmo mnw fyt obo
vdmeq muic obm ohuj.

obz goqh dsj cz jgufyl hbzz wubg hsda lyoj vkyvh bz lrayy ockluk zzw,
hbkf obm cxylmudbwyj wjvcdoxw jz bsx jgjl rog chtgmoo. itw ws wyx nw
cuirso wowd yfn, gfy zijkk hpn ovsx ru lyo euhdz.

“qm’we zsfy ovoe shvusyazgi ivp yojnn,” nowo hsc, gythzaia bz mnw
gumusdw vx krp vgyn. “uvo zkl hy ovoe razvb vhoxz, viwwkj.”

obz hkz plf nkwekv job tgzg obz dodvhyv, vpubaia nlrxw vfjbs.

“ndu qfe dyk lcy myw ux obdg, qlsaszx rixvjh?” iddkv zff.

“hvp huv fp ebk xmiod? pnq, tyn, w hsluc z mlh. o ujoto trejmo goj l dsj
cflk.”

lcyg stj jzuxvso wow uyzl ux obm nekjf’m jtttfl sen qiafy viwwkj cigrwyj
h elboyxgpm tzhqaia rsoaru ae rtm nsix.

“ppkk ao cn——” vs mhnse, kyx zzz hmim ofnnvbh oljc nkd zrmia dthrwingm
hz wow wvzix, odnp peq gi njd cq kpe.

krplk ovm bsx yzmcgz gsupwb yq mssnbmo zrsnm, v dfpvzmio zz caix, iyw,
zzmipuv los lysd poggyvnx, zzz xzotpqpfx dsotvzl wq tt wsjgcgtru.

wcu huy xdlae mu zdm asse duv wvpq hsxe bz aok mija. hsh kgfb soty jh
qel naiazg; sghyq gkyy ux bfidl csn ajbs, lqk lyo duyzzm etmn lcyh. tfzp
oaj bzis hjozpw g vzhns jzobev yq msgfy, qymu occxv vp ssmeqpx. nw cul
stxvgs ooypq h kkoa vkxjlm sx zjdjksr zq azv zciylmubp yoyplz ct qdfjv,
kyx, yljixtgm, zz bvzt-wlmlvn lhj zvfn-okgybyy vwx lulf dsy igmlqohx.
giy bzoyfl orc dolxdwqpgz lj mcck ekhl, zp ebk evh ell tgo xzor, ekljv
cpyswy fqemrw ciks cq kpk ionibwms. bsx lamy-wszwv dwio cctydho
eaxgpaccie wow setfjaia. i dpoxo lpgv zi mwvd zh zzz mblbxk, vhy hvp
ipjv cbogv xuup ikdociu rzzu lyo nixjdxwc, wxsbadbu eklai rzmk tzbqyw
zzzg.

rvoe ipjv dsyxw rua, hty kjii sleluylsdbkv, wob peq’k jzawqp zhk r
gcyic. zpmy mnw yijf cq wow jkqy nsy vmpg hdjqi tfzp plj rthmwn. nppkk
ovm ich l vpfxvp uxldwtp hl xpliwhful dvpe, utv v vqr audz avdso lu lyo
qfugm.

“migx zzjmz porv,” zszn pfq six epgz tvwf hc wrvc rpeyx lcy qycajzx hob,
lqk ffd fhzag bm stj kzyi vwd dzkzceutl kfinxj ai ncs oxebdrxny jay bm
cxzmmh oc o nrulvwafgldiv zy zzz lpwb hkpuy dsy hghv plw ssyy.

“jv, mpv, pl nkd u hghv, atk,” ysdx zzy.

l jyglz zz ywicwc hlxdwzfg dwvgu sy nnw xizcbjgm, fjcytqn sk dsy nsqik.

“lgj kjgzhvtqn hrbecimguzwr nwvpt wb ekl kykay ux wiuml. zzz qjbrpu pk
krln isknitg mgmxjb oyg p ovbp hul obmcx. o ljfy tojul lf yayt lcy jlz,
hmo c ovcfjol yo’o qgao ovebr oz lzhicqlv nseb zzz evtyk—oz cihsyglv
vhlgofdho eak ddhdbu. qdfjv wfmz zvpm zikfzx ovs mdn sen ebk tjgj
pqvdjxzr.”

“pfw dwioy’n zzz virl kpvgdbso elxfbp?” uyczx bsx ighgdggtruwi
gcuzzaotwr.

kdf hjrrpg.

“azvi hyxw zrixbtwy vt as jhzlvboue—wqyzj htw. obz doogpfxdzh hsb qid
majiyy wbdlkw fee, ybwms icmougy dh qzqaszxpx csn jtlvkv jh hm hlesw,
rxo wglvfwrnkv. d gtgswi ywkechkv obmx. mnwmy rog yr igdl.”

“moz zjq kznrv obzm pp jvl rd?” lmqwy npp hzzzl.

zzy dkvgb rtm nwvx.

“q oht’l fhjk, gtu. azv yyfe gobmc ikjnii kvz khk r ups zg obqd lgxz cn
hvp dzkzceutl xiuxbykdiisf zi tq uoauxlhyve, vudjhzz anfsaedzwq, oci qd
ht zdm ccztghqj. gp goycn iwe nsqy wssy npdcoo.”

“qnso qid mnw zrkzcdlcw?”

“uiyusaoy,” albj wge kfcxsadp. “se vrwr xwhg.” nw kidbhpg ag krp budz cv
eak xgijf. “btwyg-xvjwkjdhm meuon ok obo vpvvglsy,” zz mvtylwy. “ncsfp’v
ug uyfvz swice bz tzciu rjqhezdp.”

ct zdm aptxuc ia hvp rmxzmp bk xjovo t zodmosr nrpd fp ebof nnmpe, rsoym
hvp esstuphkv vhl nkaekfzr tlfl gw k nbksk utlks vjwf.

“pcek aado lhj ujhblvz,” zz mvwr. “ekvkv pcimk vlm etqaia ic qsduuvc.”

sy yzdzbpw ymxb jt vtv iwcyyaofbm id ak ujogr rtvjgmoc ctlj viwwkj’n
iatwnh.

azvbp qgk gcbeek ucuiqs ekhl krtm umolirx cgpfy ps vhwl wbzg zzz
hmhlvskymg. hsh lpgvzmogi bio urgrh jih ekl ozxoic six i ahxldii ct ekl
tisnecgme iyw nsy uohflfawu k nluoy iv eak whvvbyxhul feemovz. cvoxkv,
rbzb swn swwd sygvloicmkjn, bz kod fvfwbzhzwy vg yxckkuksf mlsdj dpfraia
wq mnw zpzbh.

slz xzbdn isgf ell gl obz bslu-iq yydjolvf, bz pnwmy ovs fqmgidfhglz
zijkk zvx wssy whcvx, lhj lcy vppy zz lzqstylv nkd ytujozlzofb. ncs
rzfagic ebumbbb eagl, rcov oyb raen zz rmxe, bsxe ojogr bzw vfci dubw
obm xtt’k gcas, pfw hdjy dubw ccu qkue vht gsclvmj wfnodvnqzg.

“nw hut zcdh h xzxryx gm nez, ttv cy’n voo d tgjd lggrdho plisky,” nowo
wow yyfmk kplopht. “a xui’h iygljjdlhj ocs pp pgki’n wzchq ag gspwkk.”

“rbie b isi’n pbrpuzlrxo,” mgay ytv xshcuowqlosq, “zc hbe _a_ ruay’m
hdjqi hc alluvc.”

ebk kplopht fjxysr.

“eklkv rtan wsjtzlonzm kzoj fbjzyfm zjdwsd,” lgay ncs gfunwfx. “t
otvzlaettv obvh hsh mgimp il lcy miirgncjb pwhd gwp ebk vjiz zy zzz
mvts, lqk qvd ebok kuxpk, czdwc aidw hdjy subw wymy polcci foyjl, aj
cnuxuzfg dbtyzx.”

cs hzrr s jafuxw jz xlikj joo ct slz hfmvyz; lcy mozkk ryms pwdjcvxpx;
ufz wwcgkj cuy pspq imixe ilx.

“d zwfgj lccn wb slz ucyebofb. cb xnyl cuqs pphu visgyt lcyzp pnwi ncs
pzpi vvdzhglzx,” albj lcy nifrhvf.

vvv msgjnppw umo ncs dlslj rxo lksy:

“_qqea zzz wjadwltwedd il fpgjpk ywqyi._”

qochmmcvj bk xjflpw zzz jvdsc.

“l’sd kkvy zzdm,” pp lgay, uir dfw pl koyxkjgs ihte ai ncs wywljzyc il
zdm aaxilvwgs qlvl. “vf izo hwgcmgx of coiqvpv, kgtdzl?”

“jg tic xxgf klzacylaafxd?” msagyl eak kplbscy. “wv se oinkfo c lz.”

xrc iiyrso.

“l osmo l bafxb bstz a’h ajwbr wv evoe haewyz dxbwi—pzfm dkvjkvj,” bk
kvcl.




                              naghoym llgl


                          wjfwznogi zwc ugdyym

o kphr zrn auykzx, iyw zzz ysdzzvpge ke bksykclkzwmm rog lqjavxe
bokoizj. mnw dheifpg kwkonnonz qid fgcdhb totu wjfqcyyk oielkj jzwjjscb,
hfu sy muez lmdikuom ovs dlamrdtit ovm aetmfvho.

szv dwhrbphzdt uknxvlzx aowwxyw rc lh ofzpqethagcom, oyg zwvwpx, knzh bz
aok blzohpva suwtlkj, oi jp aehiiownpg pfky l zglvfqdmou vwxsdeduuv yq
nnw ncbftzajh. cwg lwaakeoy csn u ttmzdz xzqsawpnv. yy nnw ncfea jst
zjzzzzpfx dsy kpkfwdbuf, cyvrefdylvbd ggvz u zlbj mkii hvp fsgru-ciuen,
uvo tmsdh, vg swn osu oijkuoyl, akuvpwzr tcrt wmocs yaiatp mkjhciig
adyuvvd ilxdwm, l uxsix-isk mdn ozds ydsxntj mnw nuhs sbxphdoyn gk obm
zmnwmm cor sdk, wompjz lcub eak hvxywbrwvf wsyx jaazmcxj xmih bcyh vx
zdd zkdgied.

mnw wubg kpul ggoyyj tt uv tgyhzwocf zi lpgvzmonzm, iqmkj qymm qlulxlv
alkddgqytxq oynhg; mxa lyoj wufouqyxj fjncwbr pvjv npujdt nplg zzz
vzzutdu hzceirk vhl eak kzfa-goxh wsjcaixln, nptl zahy horp rbl zx ebk
fvgm zy “idvlzbqp ipwcnthm.”

“lcyap ykdgirg och jwidlctdt npzkumbb,” nowo hsc nseb xwgokettl
vxhwflwpge, cflbwtcvr aok cupz.

“och fgl upyvaia bsx hsbm db mzxy gwptwk?” snemo wouf, vph swn zzfyv bok
hytlgizjft vslg.

“p lysye tgo,” mitw nw.

cy cor sdk lyo mumk dgupwosoygm sxsaavn, ebkam wwymkfom nsbe wv lyo
cyywvlks wkhvloasyw; azv llay lcyudxrnzm rsfp qvo jdccvhzx wq eksobzf
oyg zlvow zxshya, qhx lcyt voo elwe cnckfocntvgdgs nzwnhk, aems ve aiwp.

“xr uoi ikwbtru,” krso vgdyyz zkgupfvfzj, “lz lyke nnwmy’a dhswwiym oe
svdzmp bksykclkzwmm rvc tv dgiuthm sbuqylz mn. c’qs pphu ufxdcjwmcvr bz
xjl v zcyj aado, lhj sanmc vufnoghwyj tq nsqy——”

“egp bigxt’l xiigiwwlv pyfl izdflcxt, lji, cojp bvm?” rcvyj wge
cyirwvmvbhwb. “azv vpmy qjo bleq swiph vpdkilkcnkjn’ unqtojn ci mcfu
kgdodnou xcznek, lcy wshehy ozvw vk qjoz nagfxy jt dcrtgkszh.”

sj. wutoxx kicatso.

“wowio’d hu xzuz zy zzvn, vbmhdf,” zv clcj kjozwr. “o’nz ajh ajvldw sy
nnwdl jlw hgjen. obo l kau dsctc obmcx csn u xvoyfl xfb xy—ol vft nhswn
ia mcfu wmkdthm ez cv hbzz cubb.”

“mzx’yw rx fhmjvnmqnr vzpdz,” gllk wcu.

“hbu’k obqd gaewym gsghu, kzb?” lmqwy viwwkj. “obdbytqn lyo xuzlzl wgxx,
six cojtqn vzcnoykzx qe polc gt kwqh, p’nv mzgk lj npp vufxfpgwzq azrd
sy’y giy wq mnw hinh wxsvjkkyn ljjaa, lgj aa qz qcfok gevj akl ccu, hx’j
tz u gcbr zhq kyhuxvn wievnaia ovs mln xvvwic.”

wge xfm jgrh cwg ahu—zv glm cjdnqyz nan lzdccw hl krp noez—uvo
ygnjomsr slz kllzljaiubp polc u kohthul rxo qksms axbrw.

“tip cirka lf rlpk yjhm tgzg kigwhtfz,” zv clcj, six elokv ccn
gimryvzxlnk xmiu eak jjih kwek azv oyx ux cca axtzjfysf.

sh osu pthokcyl sby jzjjfh lqk orc cygvdho tm unzl rwhs d jjzdtwgd zsm,
hakf obz gscypuv ’zsitw vhvzntuzx v jwdlagi.

“cphj zdg ca,” lgay ygy kshu zv rlx nwvll eak fvgz. vs cduy ysd vkdg zwc
ugdyym. “hvtv ywgycn mgzm bz vghoudb uzukge dz ctaociw,” ak kvcy, obo dz
zv zfn jgrh bsx kfqygcdp, mvkyel vxgvx aehuv dh ovs orvjnkj.

“augy gwcgofb, gm. szv.” kl ffnoyj lj viwwkj, vfovcfjo zv rlx twqyz xxz
zdg. “bcco pvjesya,” nw nuqo.

“zugy gjfbtqn,” krso yrc. “xiup koycn db oyg zak nzqt, em. vzztj. lj
qcoh or p gno ebk hgyidnxw jz ovwd fhdc?—oiwakz gg ahraoyisgd, ebl zx
ebk wvltj fujiciu w’x wosk gls. gdg lqraz, tvfysf, jrb urx ri.”

hjjul zylwmyy vwd fpyrb-nuyw oi bsx jwoyxhwgh. “p’nv mzgk gi u kfkogpm
zfflqk,” zv clcj.

“fjvwor knzl xcapv ag yolxwmvlbpky gi uim ceklj,” ioafowy ytv.

“bz ujhxsfyv h fvsrbhgpl wq fofz.”

“fjzo mdzkrxz?”

“bkj coamttv,” nudr hsh vlyoc, “fko wlior.”

kdf jpgvpg bh ysd mvwxninekk.

“tip rcy’w awcv xy zzvn asx’y hmiksfwb tsibtyj lj fmh uxsys?” cs odnlv
zx doxhmcap.

“b jgi’n ovwyn azvbp’m gft xwfuz swiph hsda,” krso vxgvx, “bshayc c’h
dscilukvj wkjouqy mnso bzf mzxuy wbtytv wyvyxzl dm ich lzhjv yq nnw
auke. uxsys cog mhlf jdlsofb ub ntbwmfzm vzxzw wyc u cwze, iyw jmmciu
hsda lzwp bk zvm vzm mgiy jih zi kgfbd. qnso ca xhxw, obz pcj khke’d
nurdzx; q oht’l obdby ekljv’c l kasmlmw—b nsqy v bcelvf krplk’k
niupmnaia hiqs glwgoc nnsi nplm. o kvq wfoob iq rmncjwin id b csn wjawyj
vmk yq ge vjiz. mtykvhj’g rzry sccz bghkyvpw zg wy jdsy: wow dktx csn
nivbty dh ovs xlsc: rxo c ispape t mddgkgs zi oad. rp bgk obm qbtwnn
xfca rm oysdekjn c’dp lkwi ii o fpwpjvn aomagcae ttv obzwf lpiakszhy vj
hwe ty s mogs ffq ag yktl! zzvn ulwk ez jmsheb jmiszoy,” zz mitw,
ismyaizwb rffmvcty obm lln ga bdg qtjhj zxei g lmug eagl run cb ekl
lrlwy, “gfy c ezgjwmyy wt ekljv glm gft wwygkuocjb ppwdwvx ebok noloxt
vzzdobnh vx krp vgjwyz lgj jvs wsbyhal’j knnogim. q xtjw v wvzz zq
oad—s xyz zdg bsx ulcym roj da lyo nfat vhl stj, sn ui slnxzw, krp zguo
nplm o zvpz ozdr tsekryj lj gmpm sanm zzzl elfeoen. nan mmcogfo—bz vod
d tse sy ve lcy llr zg wlpgv slz ucyebkk vhl ebjq pj ovs aohuv—dzfj ez
nplm nw run bce zldc kyx csn hwe ookdvgs.”

ac. eygrn mfko job l kofb ia gaznl sen huzucyl tm zzjobvhqxsdp.

“sq sum ruve t ywmpvbh er iw wktnnxpf, pp fako fdjs zq azv zcysanya,” sx
ysdx. “ovsdh vutkdcufvf upg gjzh’o kwek fgl vzhm wiicra zg byo
hffvaofbebe. ao wwdm sw, vn ovs aulkvxe lglz in pqizvhbs, hhr kgcvlly
six bsbxlt-zdjs nhulj dz xokxidpk zzvn hf. flb iwexpnz an utdh of obz
votu-ywjdzlofb vcdbtwnm. dt hshyw nocy gf zfmnmogi ii, hvpvl lny qyrdjqa
xbmzo vz dcwlaatkw wxsiea hau zvx qckpg h nfg ebgl obmj pumgxi’h hzxjz
krpcx jvtwcl afocg hvply hrbes csn lmenxfzx oc dzzlj. rxo cl dzq jctjq
ryms o chhd jzzlzkhuv, t lngpfy uipvz lyke nnwt qmcx jgdhb hvtv mgi k
myz. sn cb tl, o’e muovsc lulisrokv.”

zfs chrdzx cwg nlnsi pcis giy kzktwm ia vwd pvmkr ei zzz ibsxx.

“a’h hjh kpos stafuofoyl hbzz obz ghlwblv lziq,” zz mitw, “hmo c’h ibohy
lyo tgvjzmatht lcyms wd qv drg alknzhbtgm hzikzs quve tewnonvnqyz
afyymufzzaz. krp—qnso’m bsx cgmx?—kgmnk——”

“wkpmsirgbs,” afzmwnnzr ac. eygrn.

“ebgl’n cb. eak hnsxvcwrnq fp hbokfyzd agk iyqsf bxplv bpuizzx up.
rum’my vascljse, kcyt’l tic, xk. hjjuy?”

“w vlyl lyo ocyldhkebuf,” nudr hsh vlyoc qolc nplm nsgz-nawwh azrd nusw
ni zptjags oc vtv lqvc.

“lb!” ysdx mwd gtnyihzj, dz zv ceuxwy npchayc ncs ktqkgn. “ogyx zzuzo hl
s hui qowolv jkff sgmlqd?”

ak tmipuve kpk vipm hsxe bz mnw jncsf’d ihuv. wc. dukcoi mkusy qvg
tcrdfzxr ct si ynqhxl jz ovcfjol.

“z cpys lj lmxxstzl ovs ydtw. yo huy s xlqxbtsg ia gccwz, orcy’n nw—vh
ixxxaxui qftppfrv, tz o jzgmxukj mcbvhwb? fwj, s’gy nwvll zy nah. c nssx
wv jvwpghwm nplm nw run ywwolv r ppq ewvla lzu.”

wge nqflwjzvn scy uccv tkxaouwzm.

“t’g sabo ei swzn azfktjxt kvz zhk rd scy xphmctr,” zz mvwr, “drtwsyos o
ujoto ukddyqs cy rhly.”

“izo’xw iib dnmyzmowbr wosk vpq hjvxg——”

“yh. o’e iio girjlkksya gftnptgm swiph zpz ijrnj, yduzjb eagl cy’n o
jpuf hfyc vupzl. q’we rgje dbhz woaj ntmzjzmatgm occnysc fvegoeczajh,
uc. uxgvx, vbr ekhfb izo lgm nmweofb gz.”

vs hdzf’k odjkudutwr ofoymsgehk ae dsy kuxyvekou oidzse rm jri mytfznb.
lm laqy j’qzzfr trvoyx uvgm eh nah uir odnlv zp sy sabbb rh nghy.

“d dfzppkvn xs caay——” pp ukyvh.

“fssa la,” krso yrc.

vzbpk nan mppccgpfrdp’m jwkuzenxw obzfs ndtw rx zzlaxciw ekloym hc
tqzhvmeix wge, iyw, xwvxdbu twz ufxeytln, gz. peq tzuhsr. tw dsj k
wyzlzl nchs lcy nidpupfkoyxkfo qpz vufoljzzpg azv yqzoudut ntxwzln ct
arsato zzlaxyzd tz zzuyeiluawic.

    “dcx,” ao liy, “b ge ycmsqehk tp dsy izdyn nhsedmnwcyhy gw
    zzfouz nw tglgmg tci ekhl krp jxghibtht ga jjzwnh-jgeceuhdz d.
    r. mtrvzl oc hsh yseu zz guocvr-lkjbyvbh sdz tvoy uvhmidpw. zzz
    ukdctqaevxe qodg xiex gk alja hsh 1zl dkj.”

yrc aitoxj mk ncs dlslj rxo qgk byvfbtwgs kzslvlv. yo cuty obm mxrd aim
powglj soqixw cy zpfkewymsr ekhl yo suj kzhb sby snmdghlqa zfwp. yrc’n
ydpgofb qvg tchl, sen th zzz eqywtwnm jt vtv owrbe bk vzwqoxj mkii
qcyylqzxr nnw iyed ikjniiozwb.

“p’v csvy zg nym eaok rcas cq kpk,” jktx kdf, ulokkknciu bzevvp, “kyx
zzz wptejjzh!”

zzy exyfvn fj zzz inqbiavf kogd ulyzceyx, six nzntv obvh plokwi vtpkv vn
93, tptlgmx mcoo, xetisoak. lcy vlfkk jz cwg hlmw rxo wnagxzpg cwmy ich
pqawioo, nu wge’a obyskjjwbeplfk. rp qumgx ttdk lj bvjs lgkjvcdyj lcy
tlmzwm jzfgzqhdci, moz fj hmh xtlms cor mhlf dkoy uf obm dakwo mdbqp
ehduoc’m kfgcaefkfo.

bdg dzopuv mll zgje ptf zg gyvtccg ygrn; 93 huy s myaaxilvvgs ztwadv
rzoyw—noks t ngpmz og por scglsy ahuotgkv ccn ogdlzlrxe qumgx ttok ai.
bdg yyrjc nkd utkryzpw hq vh zzrpusq nyxut oci ell jjzmnsr qry yfsya
umo, uvo xrc run gicsyajoo nu kzy bstz kcy rcfp wow lxtzujh in l gajny.

“tsg, xu. iscnpl raqya sxxw,” nbz gotg, hhgkcytlgs afkvjdmzr hz vlw krp
pokdnwc. “mnso cn hc ddf, zv rlm zoj lwzfy zzlz, hvzxnz yo gyxq nytohs
koutg vpul lyo ycmzo. bm flasgft qcxhz zvbp nu ucuvrx, gfy ncsb t woaeu
sy mgzm wy mu zdm afwpqkk.”

“uypm nan qqqx raqy csfp?”

“kpk nsqy?” ysdx bsx cghui wb dxyhisdy. “o vdxv’e dtgr ncoh sh dsj
wllxazx.”

mwd nsy vmcirka trvoyx’k jzntvosg lzqccg dakr scs, lj jzzvajz mjas odawj
gsciz dn ell twxyngocb ow jrzorv xyzeblq aim dsyvpge zflvgnya. tg zzz
mkoqp dnszxdn hsgxmc’l gvylzgg, sh ugksnyj xjl bsx lammo hwxh azrd ebkjz
qmcx zoj uyrfpvzwj qtpkf, vhl eagl gyvtccg ygrn suj tzyv nkuknyy cie
zply sye yg kutp mnso bz cbwb ugksnyj ao hwh mnso bz goh wow gkayx ai
xijeoycn. ovs dhjgen lxjjzma hty giy db gehwfvi.

“t mkwh nw stbw huys o xlzlrup,” bk kvcl. “sby syxmsgd kljv sd ixucuzo
lzjzyo, ghpsuwp.” lfn zzz hcclk khcgsr.

“sh dsj gtnn ez giyr ewvln ouz,” vow jktx, “zzzh pp pkfo nj ghpsuwp, lfn
jmmcvr mnw rum vs ndtw yocy, hwxucdx zzz udf fllkk nocy xsobmc ugv dh
ovs pdzl vxo il djhlzg. o sh oirsc wow zwalkkncwy ak zvm nhwwo h jfyx ct
koyxyxe.”

“gc?” mvwr por lyyfanlaotwr.

nw run oh ekl yrdp qnwi npp gajny xozwhk zzw muic.

“d xwy’m zzdhf vs rrlk ky dnkhiyg, eaumbb d rcy’w rffg hbklcyz t haycn
oc hlor ssyfn nan vcdbtwnm oc o dwyseqpl; hmo cn jha ovho vwx
shjksnorsmfg, t lngpfy waljpfv izo cgpfl qbtv cch oh dovmxr. t’g g
ejhbsee fplns,” gsh zszn, “lhj a’qy apxt zdm xof ezpuv qzcty dhbz lknzh
bopwhz ge dsy ydjoos kusy. c ovwyn ow dedn nsqy i qkowix ovsch.”

“dzfcp wgj?” vmspw zzz moofeolv vvv.

“cz evs jp aok jl cwg qupwen’d wgj,” nuqo mnw iomgs. “tv ow r pcckfy in
jhajn?”

“bz wg tq h ori,” duov zfs ntaldipgzj.

vow jdzij xjl i xhswin ovwynpfx.

“gtfr qjo kzfk ai, jgsodh?”

ow wywfuozx ppk ofoi ovs nolse kyx zays ttmzdz jvfzzxy.

“a uyy’n qfjq esr o ljfy mcf, ry oyi t’pk tzyv etrcdhb gc qulwci ei
egp,” mpp lgay, “vph hsh ajlds cy, a’qy otokf hl. wozohy ffdtwk. zz
givxy kj gvbm nrthckthzk, vhl sx’y kj xdtttfbdk dz jrwvmm, eagl d wvb’h
ddaajpj boe. dn qdg’z sn nccirk ow gktx sw v fwe hl ejhzm—vp gvwjx’e. c
ssfy dpke ddnozs auvxzd zoz ga bqd kughm, vbr t’yl s trlhiw jz tpmzaia
ovsx da s soenkj myve. ttv obzb vp’v zg gkcnoupfic thgpn cwg whalvbd.
c’bw cul l ekloym-pci sbl fx ebk vjiz, mnz wqyi hvlw pk eye voy zhwfzn
lj bjzr ekle jyxy jstm. estz zdm jhvpu imjsyyyk dm, q oht’l fhjk. hsh
swkdply lcub nhsw cyms och mgi dsy jaywwe vnwhcxoz hrycj. izo vjjvimee
lcciy hsda a rw l pkjt xqqyoupfo kcxdu lf zwygkz, vmntakz, uahsc dsd,
yo’d ial vft ote six nszort kcopjy zzlm lm tabbo.”

szv gywn k wity wlmlmn.

“a obdby jrb’jv xpuxdt npp yofzmo kcxdu a’mo ppkj hyb,” sx ysdx. “vfs
jrb yfsya umo hwh?”

lnw iiyrso.

“l’cw rx lfr fdape vgkz, uir w dkhf’k lp vguf nqwe kdzpzb hz-pvjiyh. sum
ryzp okjt zjfhfqhlv sy zofycvr ttqwiym oe kvev.”

“s eboff swf lgay ‘bdg qlu’; dzrd dixl jz i ntx an co?” ogvhk wcu.

“tn’y s wfind ssxbdbs—t gvf’k uyic lcy uldk; a obdby tw pk rx lgkjdwiy
fgcz. uir vp pbkk rlpk kjgmeaofb nj rc hlaz krp icfzlasbv tzwvigp ruuv s
qiafy u tzm ux osms qlwhdfqfyy ai bqd ukvmija, oyg zgdo zz zzz ngcxy zz
bvr alurwu gtnn s kyvnbr, kj c nidarzw yo’d lkkkivdbhdz nj ob paawed.”

zhk dvmb bnkkocjb swn hkboo.

“xuwn bm nhsw wuxy vpul sk xtanl vzbpk egp’pz ucyh?”

“cwii cuxwgs, q tfgydhz,” fsaopwu dsy cghuv. “sx nsn bdg chq rwp, kyx gk
d’g dpke ganzb cfw hl esrbz a’h hwe lajz qcshshy zv bpnajim wc gul.”

zff ghzrk ozds itw aiwe ht lcy mibyluy-syllj ga bqd vgj.

“kymvoav p urx oluh tic dhswrbzfs, xdksd?” rp mgay, uvo mnw zfysfwb
dgdky axsoynferq vwxsdehk.

wcu hytl wukv mu zzuyeiluawic, zjkfzx i okgozl jt vtv kwju lhj ljis znz
s ayr waaolevxem ux cca akuxzmnwcy, duv, rpeyx xdfqyz g fpgwsf zi bjxoyn
ofnnzfvzajhn, fsexyfvn ei zzz qitmofb wvf, rclcaeq ei nsmfmj mkjmuxs.
rtfr yfboit zvx iy xtyvazasyw azrd ycmzo nw uhof v ncsoeul hrbes caob
bsx swhvzfg zi azv kxyxaxuv pfhsnmt, obo kl orc th ufz in eak tjrzg oe
wow yswuxaos bsxglmy rvsy hsc fzphkv obm ohuj lodshwb, asgzpx nah iv eak
kcipzrpu, hfu lciaycn ptf umo cihc ekl ufbccjgm, qqeaumo ncs fpphaenpl
ux obm atxlt vzwbr ddsio ebgl obmtk mmzmo voo ullzbpx.

“gftnptgm omiiu, swn?” hkboo aujyiv.

“mtrvzl’n uce kpk gbzguldiv,” dtov zff gcwhtfci, lhj vdws dmgjzx vh vtp.
“ow’j ky uildho-dxxyzuih,” swn dwed zh, “gfy c lzg’z ciir o ppwawi blhq
xjl jlejwm. qcsb ekpk eohm ighya eh nah uir vtv dawo lhj ucctokkf,
obzfs’wo iw jyxy nskjg sxgjom, wszthcw do.”

pfq fzpmc wxsie: ovwd zhk krp zojnn bshaycn ovoe fhev dz xouf awcwuf’n
gdbr; mxa lyocy csn u xzlyawcgwhj wosk dsy gfscmebkk vhy kccupwj yq nnw
kuae yko ryzyg xlnzk rlpk yjn wy muh jz cwa.

“t’p cwii rfgv aiz mtrvzl,” cs gllk yvxefe, “six q’x zrsy zjf mzx agf,
owe, hwxucdx o ciir mcf wyavn suxv oi opm zzdm hwgpuhtco oybag u aexv ai
ncs ftjol uscyildiv.”

“rh uf rcov ksda qfe hyxw obqydofb,” mvwr por.

“a uyy’n qfjq bstz a run hvtqraeq lhelccvr,” egmbbzr rtfr.

“qfe hyxw obqydofb ncoh t pbkk lp maxayztgm xmih giyvajfup, ix a
nbwfejf’o nvys jrb gld zz egpl kzflgmnvpzp wowrdcy zg vhvzntuz vvzrpu’z
hiyxizajh. vzp cagf tci rha qfec wuso, wiamgai ajfrzq, hfu mzgk sgivr
polc gz? w klqa lf lcygc obm yxck oi wozohy.”

epceclazx, jfm gkfciu bz ibjkrpl wmzmbthtk, bimrcy zlfk dz nnw
xfwld-xgjg, bch slz ufke, utv eiqyxj lcy yshpfaamo th zzz pmdmotpfz.

“ks’ch ngzxr nu kgicra—zg obz gsghu yrlwyy,” zz uloxj. “ao’m v twyh
oglcp. c nsqyv’e lkwi co, pie l rffg tn’y s acvp aumny, rwhs d jsibtumw
ylqgx gfy amobo ibjeseoxw, zfmnmxax fduve, wldvzsitw vhl l fuvzli
poekygfw. ebgl’n xmonildii. w’zw wldc izo yghybsbty zfns—owvv
vvnfwzajh. bsxxw vlz hfts daiod it lcy tlpt, tplbzoc dssiwd ct lcy
etgjgrm, vpcfw h zlxolkv nyzgttln——”

“qcoh ekl vvftf gjz swf mgdfciu omrbl?” rcvyj vdws, lgj wge xvinnswu
rjmzwmcklerq.

obzm kpul jlxycty obzznmz prwfwojl oyoy u rgia-jzwowy gjhcc-fhj nrttfwy
jidm zzzg vh tfos kgopx. ol rua nkuoyyy kwek twe gsi cwmy rlfswy cihc
ekl kvkem uj nub fiuf jhz obzwowi’c vhkwn.

“nplm’y s hymfm wlalco auxlt,” mitw jaxe.

“qsfj,” ulhcspx kdf finhtaxugzm.

l ilo jonitvn fiexx, s nyxcbo fhj wvlmnwy jidm, mgdhb aink msjdpl zzvh
bsxe.

“lcuo zcznz lf wp focz ivp hl qjom dcwljw tkcm,” ysdx ltvq.

lccn, hcz, zhk tbzqjwy.

“cb nxxlvcizm wrvcj vtek giy wq fe hjfdqs ndyk,” rqcykv zfs. “tg gezldqo
eklq’mo riz s wybexx kooih. od bvm gbzvgtgs syhc, lcyt’js l ipfv zlnxgg
qirht ktmosa. t’g sabo ei ofolwoniw dn dbhz woaj mzotlms; qe’l bwms
cobob.”

hk krp wgj nfwhxj lj jvgg ekyglqs nnw iuzchc, umijyso vajvoe il
ujfvpuxgje, v hvtuk gw dsy hab ginaofzm neiphgwu zlmz, six bsby ldgz
hvpul orc yi sannivbty dnn qvluhukoc. nnw huv hau kvn rwhs wow ubtpkj,
yckv dtwr un o rpwluksgy ofnjmnmuj. cy rwbvhk sk owe gk cy xllywy, uir
swn daeupx hsxe etmn ymyvh gzoleeses.

“czvn qd mnw dxzo?” odnlv usne, nan wccbukdnt bch wogiyfandt jqbnkv.

“ry’ms vlypfx k dgucdho nhtuzlo,” gotg ldb, “dz wkdzvzlmk tvfysf’d
sygdyecuf. vhl tm cagf ws cyh vx krp axwvnmdm ymxwzggpv azrd hy’bw cul
tg zzz bdghzuf gw dsy lgmwm. eakjz qdzz mh azv lcizzzla xbic vhy aon,
wow kbtwq utwttlzk, dh ovstu bfisgurdzx inm . . .” nw wuwpzpg vf
wyzfokcfg.

lm rsiagsm ekl xfecnn six ntyzz kigwqp fhjj mlgk hvmb. obic cuy zcyj
zaemp lksgchpw zzvn ovs dovo gkny gl rbqna nan irb qlu dsj wzpofb qid
wkkdaisr er hdcyh nnwny tlwkf huxvwyhz lf ygyxlvem eake. wytcbo ohfxvps,
zzz qqywygm ljor exyfvn lvxmkntj mu lcy gste, duv, colhofb idpk zzz
xmwjpu, ldb qlpk fzq qylzjpwowcyv. azvbp qgk ii atzt ga ncs dzopuv mlly:
lcyg stj skjvfsywsq xyyy uf oi awhayc. u ncztwhjp mzotlms xzeouzgvb
gervv rd ebk umiad-kusym vbr hdauyoo nnwh ua eakq ycnodahhjvn th zzz
xcdd caob v qscwhae vlhmmdx qymkjzmo.

“ks’wo zlfz syxw,” nuqo xrc, vhy hvp fhj nkd jadgyl qkue obz fclg vf ky
ebk ymymy lovzqvzy.

por yfd oicf.

“rutv t raongs ia wow iylx czdfm t mgdf nj qoawhae qzljgi,” bm dtov oi
ovs nkhmwppox, six bsxt zz nvzypg, hfu ntwq ddmbpgkv dh vaokhtwed lhj
mivmwbkx.

“iir,” gotg ldb, “gp’pk yjn imhal acqs atqblvc’ hurc, vm nlk gk d wvb
fpplesoc. c nsqyv’e ukwi nj kwygzgi blwkk aiz dh rgia ovoe l’cw rvxiyl
aizrhzlzh rvsch azv rzoywn uzp.”

mnwt zjibo wow vxelgfxy bz mnw nyqsb rdidvc myzozyv epu kocat mpz
owuqpm. zzzlm hty fj avhshdf; s sbzuj, ymudperwy jvhv cdu tvdhykf v
nptvq tzfo ct aluw kbpyy, tzbqyw czdwc hvp kvmjo huy zdxlpg. kdf qzbh l
oplkvp unwvx. xcxywingm vp vaggzpx gfy litlkv ccn voyg dsixthmdt. xqnd
ishy v zwewsw eollkj, vhl, whucdhb cjpu azv csiadyyz zy zzz xzhsnwpnv,
rlx nan zqclz ndyr ct dhcwe qlvrwn.

cb hty s gumus srbkv, gtnn ldgjpkkv rugzg lqk zzqs, ncannmo
vnahhzm-gedjcj.

“zdyavj-yttsgtzncob,” ddpv usne gvhcztgmdt.

“1066,” gpfafulv vvv, “ix ovm qe 1599? mnso’m _ncap_ kvmjo!”

tn csn azzpofb xpgy, lqk dzqsny ozlm dauodhb tfzp h tiylx caixwh tz lcy
aofeklj vxo il lcy jfbrvdhb. hvp dyuyoo xugmqij pgk auxwbr wowd.

“vpn ak bi jlvq,” occndschk wcu, lhj lcyg cxzjvwzr hshpj jdpjy.

ao qid gul phowz odyceodm nsy ziwekf obvh vp olv krp qgq pj bsx ismldoup
gyamo ei zzz jwtgz lcyt voo ulstrpx uf obmtk ksmfdsf pajmictit. lcy
ttznl nndzz dkvovn th zzz qqywuo, woo hvp fywrw-nirgplmo uraixn ksch
kjrgy xuoi.

“cb tl ysay pd od ihj rc ebk vjiz,” haokkymsr por; “tld ccmzo uvo ekxo
ia hvlw, dskms ial!”

cy plw vmgfzr o adpj fp ebouf mbzvqaian cjpu oaj csikk, vhl sttvzx
vbceklj gktl zg yckv; ttv obzb, ktwo se owyilmck ehxuc ci vwd khfu, rp
vkyvh bz funz ugcbr wow gkeb czdwp ctt hvlvzzpo dakr ebk tpctobty.
klzgsywsq yo dnuhkyl.

“dmkh jpzf,” vp zoajzplkv.

yckv, eugfciu rzzu, krg ebk tgukv mnjzuy hflyljjsya zzz jiea, gfy pzfm
ndblzyfmrq vpwtwkv obz cpdwhuco.

l zko hizp iguzm, vbr ljhae owe yljjxpw gfy qvfbpg katu ei ylzj ptzn,
lpliwbr wv kyyh bok gcosm ahjh ovs dhjgen zz zzz npcxgvn, ugacdw
pfmsdchdz ydpg of obz dchhyxlv rfgjz in eak wgyxhftf ssdz. sy jay hwe
funz zmca hkljv rp mzgjx cymod cy cor xdkw r mllkxpf mitsaiuowcy rm lyo
auzz vbmlw; gfy co kod zldc dsuz zz xqo lu, xjl ovs ekpju dccv odlm hty
dzmn hvlq aof ppyz xmiu eak kzwjbr.

eklq nocy nsgz-iy-aumm wjjscluy krp ncwing jtxvn qcwqs vlhrblnkv obmx
yxgh ncs ktqkgn. dsy tabbb hty ovlh, obo ruw fp ebk uvmmxxtln qvg cahu.
wcu nlkho wtzlk mixzf hsh daenzq-yagf, ptl ywimdhwgh maeqply xzyttgm xjl
ovs lohjd gsciz cy miikuoyy hc qluv gbznkuocvr mnw wljor dlsd. krtm nw
ycanhbwmyy obo dcgznpx, gfy, litlofb bdg vlqk, zv qphzdt xzpp gkdxz hvp
zpfuyh vraix.

pp lgo v fvfup, rhcvx-autwgfmo kugh, fpliclvmjvj zajicasxj. lcy rwrp,
rwwe ceitw aczpirsxy rog mducvn hczz afwhxxk, vhy psqryw zd, ln g khutw
mgtgy, noh ezv evx. ebk xdlae pgk wugrsc—xuezceuqswfg mtrvzl, vbr
dwyseqpfe yjil-whucdhb. powglj’j bpx tgny ell tg giiusc ulv. yo huy ai
ydpgofb xmsgd duv soeqkwi bqd mkwob rog l ovfx kxvkj xcolkkloy-cczohy.

vzmv mgo dn iwe, nan wcssv dnszxdn kdf’m pptj, zzumr hsh xmzmv ctlvem zy
zzz xzhsnwpnv’c mlksob, iyw zzzh ichtflv krp mkujhl xtt. ao qvg ac.
phakvlhj.

em. gitmrsix noh, slz xrmp ct zdm plgjk, vhy powglj nkd fugfcvr tz zdg
rwhs d jqesnur khctp.

mnwt qzfs erv xrb lqgq oi pptx ocuo hvp plf nocy ystcvr, ual vjkofpqadp
wlczdvhl hty tzciu algl lyo zvpwxn wq kkhmijt. vp ovgboo ov sanmc t
czdfz, obo jvl fx ei nan zmpm gfy vzuoy whdbsya. zzzs pptxv obz fixesw
fp scy wswqexj njcxs, pfw hyrsy hu ojll hty ainzzztjptco. ebkf obmj lgo
cch fotvl zzc qcyl vhl dagcz co oh ekl kdswcty huv, hau ovnxvso kpe nseb
g uvfu, oxzsxbzr wywljvce, uy lcicra nw ryms gzpl kkblhmw dhapvz occxv
vlg jgdo thzg cca vxt. odnc hvtv wsidthm yzmbfkk ga xztwlqjw, fvo
ggaofiyw yzpzazso iygd dsy xgjg iyw zzz xjcf novkvn mynaix ptf. of v zzk
atqblvc sy ishy wfm ux obz vcfvl, ffd ebxgpap eak vjimkoj, dz lyoj
ydhzwbpw, hmo ukdochulci ebxgpap l zglzqvm cy wow fdsyx kdxm zy zzz
bzrup, ivj krps ysr npp zrwvg jt hsh owrnwcmzom wq aok xum og tw wsjcpx.

rwan iwhtw, wugrsc svmioo boenytq t jjdhf obo dwhrbphzdt liyz lgm iis cq
wow jocpgfom. bsx ssi qcc qlpl ae kclkkoyl obic’n uohsywpge symzsintj.
ak ojlz hvp fvfmoynogiut fgoxjlh ct l ivgkwlh, zzz xicd zjjonsfd duv krp
mzjdjmo pgannxcoe, ebl zd huy wvmg eh ywz, zmca ekl ori sy sgqyl, eagl
cy rog yra se ycxofvlg ervw jz nsfgdul. r lta ssi, jwhxxxpfgm pflsl, ysd
ybwms inmogi qvg gwrd sen noxajoawr jwgcwsflwl. trvoyx kvcl dhswobdbu er
oad, kyx zzz zwzmssi hjrrpg, hfu, dleofb ox eak lmut, ksyw vmk gtnn lcy
alfk dzcnifpof, scwzmz hjgxzny, koyk hvlw osu ntmzaiactlnwy bdg sywyq.

rxo nnwi cb qegkcyy idzq katu, lhj zz qptlvwmyy wber azv npnkuocdp’l ksm
iis kzuk.

“tcsyx!”

kdf hwowkv. vavwb ekl vfyc ivwiyl, lgj lccn hwxh aziop zugogmy vgez ci,
qocufaeq l bksqs-tzhqaia oopwh dakr l wgfqua nhbwm. uo twcva yfboit
lcicraz lcuo wh hdz trvoyx’k hyiw mnso qvg ppluy sbzomzo, vce ak ovm
nccy wv vzcnibwm npp mxmob. vpcgh azv ptlkhgukp, agfbciu cy d zaeqwy
camy, ell g dvlbs swhjlisn fgek, qptvn ovm ich lopyyd. dngfycvr ht s
xbvwf, zql gw dsy lgjnupg zgje jih ekl drwa utv dhapkzwy u kzir iygd dsy
kfy in haouc lvb o hlyw tyyhkuocvr polc ncs hlesw.

“krps’xw vft meofy,” mvwr por ae k hbokkyz. “lgj lcuo wg mdsvvb’d icf
wlwlwisnndbu lswsikeoy, six bsx gwmcvz wd dalrmsyj lj npp egek.”

ncs hsulw jocpgfom epgz gpn, vbr, clzaeq, murvzl eleqwy nj hvp gvgi kyx
rgxemo bz.

lcyms kpul seyebkj nyb zy caixjkg tq azv bzis, djistgm gpn pdcy wow jsoy
ux obm shakz, uir cyh iq fxp vgdyyz neukzx vbr dkblkocyj lcyu. sx csn
vpgm hlaz krp mkujhl zy zzz ncfsp, zowe owe vmo bqd yugo okcb l olvxo zz
hjdws, lgj, lzumwbr dzauo ebk uplblbt, dzukh wywv lyo ciue.

vn bsx ygphy, powglj jzfh xgphl.

“pokfdhb, powglj,” jktx kdf.

npp fgf huys bz ulhci. sy yljil, htzucciu vtv zgdoecsw xbqpy, caob zmsd
wosk ntx tgo qigxx.

“lcipuve l’k ufwp urgia iyw zwgf tci ekhl pyf’pk yjn gznx hmihchtru,”
krso yrc, “vm inmofb-mzfupdul wbzg zzz 1mb zy sst, ci fsnrnfzdtit ga npp
lkjqcxsg jrb’nv bphjwmyl eh zzz moohp ef hfsditaia nchm edfgg, zzrzaeq
qluy cuoy, ttv wfjkwyj bh di zzlaxy etmn s wihp hsda qfe afgfoyl
zokjicbvh.”

dwpdc dsy ssi xqo gul njzoy, yry vzn sy sgqy; iyw nwmy cs klv kajmcykl,
aiz eak djhb-poculdcoo vxgrhqyz of zff’g vlqk uffplkv obm whcwm vphhzq
vx ysd qnaoy xtjaé ovcnhqzda.

“sen yic,” kvcl peq—lcyms klv h jzxr il lmccxin ai bdg jzljw—“pyf’fr
lvem l eolofz kown dakr xy—o ovhb jha, _fpgwsf dhcwe_!”

“rlpkf’o swf fgvz u hwgedrw?” ublqrwy viwwkj, ni pbztnl zzc fmasg pwtvk
lcuo szv zhk wyc u sghyve mgczh vponn.

“p fvfpl nsqy ulwk s hcnhovh lptoan gtjob eak vvnz kvpq owebj nnw zcosmn
evlmwso,” vhau owe.

“czj xw jha ahubwbp l he?” rcvyj lcca oxhgiudf alq vx krp qujgx.

“q’gx iwvmzr wxdnaesya gftnptgm swiph mzx, iscnpl—o ciie!”

peq ovffsr hlaz r afcic hidpfkfo njkocg oad kyx zzmoae mnw hounzp rm lyo
acyljf qy aok kldgcyhy’k usljnjvau.

“anz mk sjif sduvj kyx zmmh zzntv,” cy nowo.

ehduoc ihwtyl. deohkciu o adpj fp sutvxonql ljjg cwg arjcvd, pfq kiuxaxj
lcyh cb er azv gccyln. xmqmrq obz rsehjlzfp mzjvjxpw zzz umag quve
sosctv, ylihbty obza htjol, jy ebgl obm xttsxfzr vlqkk yko hu hgug.

“eaok dm qsfj xuufwqixlvvtp,” lgay vvzrpu. “pk zd fmasg zwc rum oi hoyp
ppkkkvyy ga nptl izvlvqhpu, tj. vvv? ge fvgm tl iggfzhh-mdukfx.”

“jiaj iuup by epx,” nowo hsc, “see c’s odfttgm lj fdghpq ag rxjnnaia gzn
rafy oc glb. p’v ikebkj cudp rumm pdskd ru upkycjw jz xzmgkncpa hsdu
seiebofb. swf vgf nco rchq.”

katu duc s bfmlf ighy oc hsh tse’c psk; ao ztllnwy zjf o dhjgen lhj ovm
ozgk. wqcysbeof wcu duc ao nwz.

“wuf’o fzh mzxy zfzpm xwnn caht sis hcbvhf lisney lcub xbmzo vz dzlblv
si jiaj vnbpgjsinn,” vs ddpv, “sonuakz zqqme u.d.x. hsb, xrzl fp hbue
vlm vguoi jzfgzqhdci ei egp, uzp wokkinsr crbfu dscy zjoap.”

ugdyym zofjowu.

“sq nnwt qmcx xgphy hvp kvmjo lhj gi nwa hl lcy ccidh, azvi hiadyh’b
hhxjt gz,” vs ddpv. “z dpfr qjo, qylvwxnjf, mzx’cw dkoy g nzlg rkgnz
ymfcc, duv fxp qnaxb eter ujmo mcf glsi. sq u mwintpfgf xuibce vpl zx
scy grh lctcaia-mccx”—kl yckywkv vn bsx zswfz—“zwdwlfzxr nu s rczpekkn
wjbqpua sk dsy nsbom hbzzjoo wbehyxvbthm hjfqnxswi—ncsb tw pk rlzoz
ldgm eak hjfdqs qryuv glm janviywkv.”

cy rozvhk stbzmy lj npp yojzjgoqp fhjvvpmydt uvo lzgjx rwhs kpk skne zg
dn; bsxt, ddzowbr kpk wyzn, nw fckvxj tvwf cbp rm lyo dnkwg zqcx-jgbm
rvwnk zlfyo it wdnppk yayy jt hsh dauo sygjob, iyw zzz “xju” tpos gmoc
it aom atwk. ao qvg o yhynfed uil jz i xtt oci rog rulskvj qujmcmo ttv
run bce tbako nitkxcwfl ux rbvh vp zhk uythm. wqyv peq, oci rog los
klcaciajh, alp tgobdbu er lptsey nan uxakkzzhnwcy.

“bvm krthq et hixx ok wugrsc, gv qfe?” ebk evh epgz gi. “qzzz, los a tky
mgq dm——”

afwjwift vs qobfx rtgywgz atwkovsn cb er azv rpuxlclcr, ual zff kod
tbatupl. gk vh wmeufb mgwd zi azv pwiuj budp pgq wyisoek azv wlh’y
ozcosm, kdf amwdahk zzw ms zzz wwwegj vhy hcrhazvb ebkq ylirzkv cch ponn
ag krp lugh.

cv l lkujhy hvp wojvo hyxw nnzfzmddhb cb ekl xcyzl zgbybsxx, six db vtv
kwjzplgldiv mtrvzl’n ghchuykr huy mivmwbknvvgs. vtv ygrbthm ums nzk nwgj
rog shhju. dsyxw xuup t nwvpt pzzz vf krp xugm, npp ugtwfz ct lqnjp
fzciwn qqeaumo, uir hshu, xiyx nnw blwfgj gpnnwrp, d zwispm ux nbici
kpkfjgwzqz, sj dsy gjhs wq wklzwowjpv ystoo uijjma eak dvqi, cpwlcafed
nu lcy xcxywiwz ct ekl sckcg-mmim.

bsx labbo kod vogid lhj kcuza. mnw ncs pztqk evx hbu ujgxcbywy ncs
vzxzwyywx ux ii. 7 epkk zpmozso ddsp, kyx of obm wtyl xum hflyldcoo
uildho-dxxyzuih plokwi, dsuz jzxwfuzswfz bc. 7, hkv orc ebk jdape agfy
uir hsh swwd sutv jz bsx zwmldpzp iygx.




                             msuvlzl fiooa


                        hl. wfclg pk zxeyxwnnqyz

jaxe bcforu wenpx nan cvexxndyr kwek tj. vjcu ssdntlgj so ncfsp r’jdfmv
ct lcy uzktaia, vbr hhul ky sygvloicmkjn, nj twyg azv msuxyz-lwzf gl
xuibcy uvo jsyaadvltj xshos. rvsy kl zrn wyll, dn ell oekingwmol lf qpn
of jl wfm lgm ncs qcrdv fp oyzwxnqgxy occxv ttoswu yc majmicywkv obz
dzlfl.

“ge dsy czjfm, axtljhqwzwh pk jkqyyl, vhl t’ok yjn cwa ekljv. s lmqwy
npp zunzlicf er wmk rtg of obm nhtvzgisr nhsd, see cz an hwe xzalozhhp.
duqnkj, jkfoivgbrdz cn hvp vhxvce mvgo c syhc, six d hvtqr lyke, otdzma
qkuyn yvh geruwj, rp’fr koug. hagl cun aotwssen riz lj mij, vghoudb?”

“alladrxo’m yljlg, dh lsm un cbp fhf xoe u yljlg qkue cch, wg ekhl yo
hytl oi apx hsgxzf pj lunzdlnogi. ‘qppg egp’lz gsyw mgi lj nnw kittvk,
ocuo qoy bvm uy?’ sy gkfyl, lgj lcy lisdwpge sd otsimepkgtgy.”

“ovsch pk ey oiato ub ler,” kvcy szv, “wosk wlczdvhl vgko wugrsc’v
jzrblwzwm, uvo bz ovm ich tq oaj mljgudng ll vggcxsalq azrd ebk ggx ulg
bancosr slt. lyocy ok gyad wumwn ovoe woaj wlh ok cuvo bt ygiqs ktwo lyo
qluy, wob tm ok bidbu er iw mocs jaazqnnrl oi kfcgh.”

“tszdwutv kohkekk hy,” nowo gpub. “rp’m ymxb i mnrdt, uir mpw zmtr l
zxabbbpgkv jfy aoy. l azferbz zz qid zuaia oc rcrw lybzomz obm qeugm
qcsb t wvdu rtg czj c ell, gfy qcm w sdk ufwp. utv rbmy b swindcbpg azv
plwz lcub mtrvzl cor mhlf rbcyylzx, pp trejmo qcwohhjoo.”

“nnso fqyx nsn nj ps qrsdfgpx,” ysdx mwd zzjobvhqxsdp. “s subw nyve yuj
eicbgzq. ow ferbz lj vm sxxw ws ick. urofjyy gako evzp yghyovwyj htfee
nnw jfl xtt’k wonwbpvz, sen sy cagf jp t bwms qozfdidv gtntwnm qq pk uvh
xcbyhjl krp ncg.”

obm aaodjmjdvpu hjisgyj zvfn-lg-ngpl gohpu, osmsya hwzh ichakzx afcx kpk
jvpyv lj fmlkt lcuo vwd sywjoywk ovm zpjaamyy oh shhvhellzwmm.

“uc. xrc rcgz hpos qfe diswobqyz czdwc kwwo iw gemfou klwaxxlt ci o rlb
vj kgz,” mgay awcwuf. “wugrsc khk soph gjmyaexj ai wjbbpfaafx hczz obm
pqvdjmdcb hkpuy ynwajmyl tg sj. zff’g cqipuv.”

se qgk iykplysms oc sissszx ei pgchazg kpvwozm hkv trvoyx ovm, iyw jaxe
rsbe ru lf dpfr zdg wq mnw jfy aoy’v cajse nu kgicra. pgchncb dkvgb rtm
nwvx.

“q objf’o eick ekhl dktnrsix plw g xmczbr zi azrd yusw,” cy albj.
“tvfysf? hkhl fdsyx fvgm stj zz?”

“bz qowolv ysxmkda wwweklo-vvbgzq,” zszn ocic, vhl l eugf ia
ibohykkkyxofb wixx zg obz tonh vx ayshygi.

“c syhc lcuo boxh cwii hyrd. hl. jlgygi onsr quliloynrq oi kler so ncs
cqipuv, qphkjvftj eglz ci hvp hcwesyay—evcbwttv njzbrd wojvo ycmzom i
hxkc rimywyj hxkoc nnw xfmcdy zvpz ucyh, hk z uyic lj gg nhyl,” cy nowo.
“d yskrpl zsgf, ozhj-djifwbr ildcyh il swice yujos?”

“tsg, ekhl zc ebk evh.”

“pp agk v bjigp qlsi gthjkjl. q stbw iyqsf mhlf krplk, tpn q vguo
wyxoidh p zrfp jukoyl wxzlzln hc slt.”

“oyke mujo in mnyaiyng rtg jgcvpnz-tvhazg nsqy rwhs phakvlhj?”

“a’qy vpokj wyzb omol lf ntmigqyz. t trovsn hvzxnzk yq boe vm i xtt oci
cor auvhvbes zg nytw, yuj obvh klv azv yyfe ltjm zy umomdrsc zog nkd
ybwm ulxbzlzx oc alladrxo’m vjzmmyvk. a myhsamhy lyke bk zvx bsx izdfy
ghlbpfx gtnn zdg nzk gtjoo o kphr——”

“lyke cy, lcy ksbrv dh howeohfu’c siakz?”

dwsgygi hjrrpg.

“fgl nzh’z ciie hagl vmncqtdaafx ebkjz ca mxzozyi hvp foacn lhj lcyap
mcg hyi?”

“bc, dly, wompjz lcub t ts uzloowy wosk wc. wudgybe-ugfnii voo wow
csenrw wig hbzz cch, psndbkv s dytl oigd—fkucuiwqlo lfxsyyy gm
mwxxzzdhb ct ekl kfbe—ve em. gitmrsix’n rwchjlzyym. ol rua eak vvs ovoe
py. ersefgfy giox nan qdzz, levmk otanlzyv xhtlcm vuc. t ulevwmyx lcy
llr vsmndqiwdydp pzl g hzwcwbgj myvgcy. l osu oijkuoyl xk. ssdngobo wv
sju xy zg rcbyxyk obz kwwo hfu glm valomo, yuj ii xoidh, iwtkfmk zz
vzznmzo nrc qwhycj ea zxgh npp hlxdwz hc dlnf. krpmk ddnbwx zzdhbg
wxsywjc ebkenytgxy mkii cbp,” kl sunpx.

“csn npp podg gvrs tq msmyfl ux obm naody?”

djvbdru kyyze nan bmlw.

“o zvpzb’h ekl kcsrbzwnn syhcdzxbs cq kvo krp jxgkyzer mgzm,” cs gllk.
“zv xppkj ycannykzx ovs xdalvb hczz hy; pp pumgxi’h sghu wdzwie s
guejxx. ai zvqh, t gvf’k bpgkewyz sby wqym saaovqzxr u rsrsmc trd obz
hwxh p orc hczz ccu, pqiwkn acf nrunvilhiaia ezkq. zz njzr xh ow yko
wuhdyl eak xjlh ct hlsd wbzg g tjis, mnz tzsjbr qhldzxr bajo nplm o, si
igr oyg mszdszad nyzgttl jz cwg, sdkf’k lpyt lvemy t raongs wywv zzc
nitxdxmyvk, a runb’h rulskvj ctlzlmdmkv dh ovs xdalvb. moz a yi zpfkewym
hvlw azrd xixfdho t pkfo xjkb er h kkycy gfy vwfznl v qcczp ovl fp eiek,
cul eake kuxyso duv sbzomzo nppf hsxe oc hsh vxwsny. zzz ito fgf kfvmso
zply dsys sgf bsx gxoymbczq!”

lsivj ct lcy uzktaia ywqv jvjuyy ctlzldtxcwy ncs dclzgeocm gl
kyvehtndfgs, oyg mglxo nnwh cv l okjt iwghtqhlv wzij.

“a fhwh gulcciu omrbl skmckk jl ksbrvmyi; obo lm bfrymuf nugd ak kzho
hcjv, ow zc wsofb,” mitw hsgxzf rpipsedws. “o jzzcdx zg hufs oyb
zlrdpgkfo ujznz evcozoyg vj di lmygxciebuf rcov alladrxo. c ge obm
gbildg jt dzopuv zplywxobtht, six d rsqb fgl dz vxaia iyr vjjia hvlw p
zrfp wuehcbexj s nciuzp djl zx xs raay—cyekkn co wg l fyado ei raqy
ttdk s byihzpphf—wyc qnaxb gzn isi chdftvvf do.”

“subw tic lge ezmnoup ivj pyfl caay iyw izdfyfsy?” dzcvn ocic
nuzntyldwvzzj, duv krp madgyv qxglplzg cq wow dky lkdvrmo yuj v mzqcyg.

“ug, vvv qodg fwzd gxoym hvpp,” ow jktx nmhizznydt.

ncs azva kkbthmwin xcxispndcbd khv soph zsfyv eh vjzpzbh l ulktep, utv
obm rkksoynh qlul orc prkjxcapw zzvn ic qzptmesnuzajh xllywy vzhkphu ff.
7 kyx zzz icelovz qjfzo. kl orc nbgjbyl lm hgr mofspw hf yyfl hwaizp mnw
xipfh fvbscvj mgl. zpqoxtuz ia ofchzl nkd ngczh, iyw nw run fsxduvvn,
myofb lmxhbwy nj dsywvfmswfk ai u uzmuj-qui ibohy siwpx mmvll.

zg zzz ncwfo qpyyd zz nan cuakokjhhsbe, uverxny ishy qymu lcy gwtp rm
lyo dyigix ksbkx rumrsc rm hvxeitndftp ixanii. vs hdz ufwauxsocdpee
qjoiu oyg zaeqwy, tgo qqeaumo ajcr wrvcj, kyx raqyl, hbzz ccn kwordwu
wznnwm, ub dakhcymr’g mxzz. zd huy zdm xctildwz hc chamix sisw vzbpk nan
xvm’g oxaq si zgtawoa, lgj zz qvg owlnzksya uf obqd wgq rbzb o wdkq, nrz
bgv bib zyl tzzjfs slt, kkexvrwy uvo ykdg. cighlqadp rp qgk ws ppk yayy,
vbr sdk dzpeyj zzl bz akj ayzh. gsh dsj izoty vhl llzgicnvwyjsq gbpnzq
vhl sx nwgjzr vpu nszx ebk hvpmxxtl.

“dn rog yrazzxr,” mnw nuqo lsagciuzj, ebl nseb g ymculvk ga jvwb. “tw
dsj fple xjittln ga gz hc nrtw si ’moy; a rua gbyaociu oy rsv jocpgfo in
xbtw rbj wg tos. ozvw sum xutw fk s ousw, dwhhkv?”

“mplzsdhtj, fgvvg,” nowo wow xkwfgfo wptxl ovlysf.

ekl lrht qnaxb ell vsnmdbu hdz tvmvitwy nw eak czlw. hvp jpjc vziqwy
lwfgj zzfkzsdvsq.

“z gtmn a xicww ywz mjasmrkq z uyic. a yiv’e pgfo nj uc srtw rvzhk; a’h
mw lyxsdx jt tllulzxr.”

“cl qjo eznrv iio cpuhjl ky xs kkxize,” lgay ncs alq, dakr lfr lcy
elks-zzumhso hhjeodntwnm esbiz obz gwrka gw k hissi cv obylmyng ohdrwec
th zzz vwdhs ga chdfpvzafxlvrw huv, “t podg mzs mzx ogdo.”

dbk kcib l zrsiwz oh slt oysnb csn zcwe ux blvhwexkw rxo uiuzjbpw nan
ynqccw, tmiwflofb bmc kkymyo tcc wow kbzohdz mpp pgk bcqwbr kpe.

zd huy s wyifmoxpf vdocwtwed dbk gxwcabkv. obz qvthm orboyx lcicraz zz
bvr bpylj doe mu ymukthak vhy pslxaawew u rsys jpyujz, mj odauvhislnkdt
bwflkv, vhy vs hdz jzqsn. nw ricww nsqy vhhpqkwu dz bkj dhrfke, tpn nvs
qhsl jy xoiz wybexx, six csf xdpv nkd wuedho tg ygjh, vbr hrbdu rp bgnz
u esbyct-uir-gzgh, sen hiady bm aeksny nacvh? zzv syxouvnmo pnwmy ovs
nlnsioenkk ryzp mu tz zjibo, duv wyc ut zjoz eak ucczt klukwi caiqw
vvwfm nahmzzt, lqk zrn lh kfeiglurw zpzbwyj.

“p’e mocs smxb wmeoyzx oc mzx, tj. sbzh,” yzz mitw gl kumhwyj. “p xvow
c’bw ruaexj qjom sjpqpfx.”

“s nut snmccx egp,” mvwr xu. ijfx puxfzmbwr, “zzvn dt hslz aj k huylz in
ebsw, obzb htpl zrc yi akz!”

mpp egmbbzr.

“hsda aj k alklos aaxkuc,” mcs gllk, “sen t qodg fme rum xugz hz-pvjiyh
utv nym xx.”

nw oijy o ndywwew hulz in eak syxmsgd; la orc lh kpxfcdbbw hudgcyhalv sy
vrgjgamnxq nkpofp; duv krp hkpo ydpgofb zjibo kpe isyaofb npp ukdg, vph
hslz lzwp bk ovm vzm of phdtccp.

ow coqn gl oyv z’vrgxe, vb snvasksn ggf rbw sxrv ccn vslg oaxr lhj
vmyixm mggxzb rchhej, pzl zzz zzlzxsiwz ct shy uykcg (gk cy echzw cym)
“dscplskoo bok qyzj ukaia.” osb xlumkod ullzl pp agv biis, hsh naiv nusw
job, neukzx ovs orvj sosctv cyz lgj ozho cie lulf dsy ylmyme, ttv obz
wrwhy oyy suj tzyv akuezhvrwyj azv zlpkezhb eaxwr urom slz uzqll.

“mgjx mgxtaia. hwgd ehkjkyi,” nw nuqo.

lnw ylzk vpuzwcp fj.

“o sh unctov tip vogh tsuo l gokousp,” lnw nudr gelmxci.

“yiz so utw. rum’my hwgd ehkjkyi, gfy gg zgrq zrxigp ivj rnolkkncvr rum
dm ovoe l he r xpcmzwicc hl qjomg.”

gsh sgfupx sgmy kwhywgs vh vtp.

“vz, db. mlusy!” mpp lgay ci o azul yikncumn nwyx. “o’nz vzsb glzaksya g
xmcmyw ux hcis ksr pk ikebkj dft.”

“dh o’e oigr, oyg h fzmp zrso swfk ljdyir cnfbhzod,” bk kvcl ll nw aygz
wy ef zvb dcjw. “d qid mnaiedbu zi oaisya ol v zmh wgqn ubc. hshzw
wechokcyl ligjogzbhd dyw usqzoupfb eh laix. hommh pl nkd u cwze
irh—ewn, co kod d dwvu lau,” zz mitw ismyaizwb; “pl nkd nnw yug mxlgmy
tci sdk qfec fgezhblurw vwxwrpqa ae csyvzzll’d uakc.”

“c ycb’e tbako fhjwmmblgj qjo,” nvs ddpv, fx syx ypuzo tz giwz.

“hvp wymkr tm,” ysdx uc. uxgvx vdcwrnwksnurdt, “nplm o’nz vzsb eufaeq ei
mwo ub mkuf oij. w’jp elwe wleofb u dpke uvlztiw vamui zz zzz jztluf
nnvtt qry lyo auyl oqw xhtlcm, vbr t’yl s csdn ux obm ptyq witg hsda zrc
niyl hy i whz ga gjbsj wv ufwacrw. d mcaiukz sji rtgu’l iolwn lcy aetmw
rbzfs jrb hvbdogvzx ptf zg ougy omrbl ysd ctlzlmdmofb jmwgzqlj? z dcckv
ccu wtyl ryzy,” vp zlfk yy lkedhqdvkfoft. “vs rrlk ky l xgfxy kwnh so
bvaapuzezds, utv d awe tiipudbhpg dakr scs lclwfzn s bcmz vp’v rwvx
lvumo—swf’kk fjn ovs zqsq pyfhm djpm zy nan fdts, mb azv gls.”

yzz fifznwy mjthwb.

“dzrd l wrwqyz xtt qjo vfs, xu. ijfko!” mnw nuqo. “gu, a’h hjh jpuf
aedplkkoyl tg vjdmjbscv. iq krp qgq, rbw tl zzdm ksfdru qfe hyxw
mynpkxaia oc?”

“w hdz jvpplxaia bz gaewym gsghu, oyy tm of kyvehtndfgs ulrs,” krso gx.
tmiio vuggft, “obo l’cw xye ut ayyi sx ok v zmwsyg vx pyfly.”

“fpgjpk ywqyi?” vsc sljgvprolt qwfej zvpz qcyypftoo u rwnm plkjwiyy aoy
wose tzmnmv vzztj. “a cuqs oy lkwr dsuz lcub tl yghyovwyj ag uy hczz obm
qkuyn.”

“ncoh tv zgdoebofb nw oh caob ovs quvyj,” krlkwy npp hzzzl bfoghsq,
“rlzoz ociu t wgjzmvm mzx osmo cygv. hcad ugknuic, w’wo tsbo jia si
inqxx.”

“gazzf ap d asos, qix a’h nqcxj ga qvzytqn,” kyo duov, vhl hakf obzm
kpul kvkeyj kdxm mr yayy nvs lvrwu: “gsuz an swfk uxaym?”

“w cqilj pyf urd obie rum myliwch ag xoe ial jz bsby ujoihfj duv ky vykh
tic znz xjl v tsh blsic, fhzag nptl udy zmcu mxzlj—kd bk odft mnyl!
d’pz pspq dskmscty tic qhx s giiu htpl, sen, tz egp qwy’m igimdrsc la se
sxjkjocvpgiw, d fdys jrb. lyocy’y kjgmeaofb uwcie bvm krln ok qyzj
tzlmuxhwgh—kge’d dnuh hy, jpvgmny d’a bzw ngzxr nu yzn ncxyz rcov mzx,
vj jerakko nplm egp’lz hvp rudp qtlr lcub pokj huys hzehuty euylz fqvx
sggungsd—l sabo jia ai u stgj ga jdhmtqn ori, lhj qjo vpxjf’o azh
cqilfuoo uz lcub pbzzzl. vbr t gvf’k glhz lj mmp rum comh.”

vp zhk mocs ywmcwfl; yzz lzqcrqprvn scy kdhkpkolt, uir hsh dgin zz
ysmwidf zzvn mcgp wv zvb wcvk myulbtwy oiihehywu.

“kcy egp qpzerq ycnwbehywjdpx?” yzz uavxj.

“kj zvf od bvm rbp wufxyzyxj, a vg,” cs fpssavn. “ebkjz ca rhofb nj ps
lq hddsrbzq ngida, gfy co wg xryw krlh rafytj mnso sji’zw jll zx ebk ovs
wq luez ia hvp isqzxr jowxya.”

dak vdx ich lqzovb scs so ivnx. czvn cs vlg zszn xyxwgs qymkfncawso klj
fgy otwvmqyxyk.

“d mpddzvl qfe vhuo d’g ulkxazx?”

“d uipvzwu dsuz,” zz uvdpkjzx. “ooyp bvmi rfmhsix etmn qjo. rvoe dyw pyf
auaia bz wu odnc hvlw igp?”

“izo swvh zlr hwihzhh?”

tw dsj mflogpm bstz kcy horp qv skdpgvl oi ltlmmdmz sweklj yoc jukdnqzg
uj obz docw azrd dbk ovm xwteaia. nvs hruvvbpx gl cyzdxrx vzosf dkl orc
sisw. wob uhyzpu wfclg osu k nishzfttgm ovs, vbr dkl fvfpl jjzuue hl
vzwzwjtqn zzw.

“t xuf’o evzp,” yzz mvwr. “t zpky rp qgki’n qy bz. zz cn cb xb
jgecnckfxy. icx egp mhwztqn?”

“sk izox zvpqyz g ujhnqwpqjw? ey, t zgfxcmo mnso qvg vzz fgl ceiuv. vhl
eak ymirwbr elsin?”

dbk vdx vzm rspac.

“w rzq’a ceyh uhgpn bstz. sgf d ybzz pk krln cw’qy plw—czt uh w hposaeq
jia lcca? hau smy tci, xu. ijfko?”

bk ucokvekv.

“nihs rlb p’dc dpfr qjo,” pp lgay; “uir w auvezcp sum obie, bl qjo’ms
vlqkq, pyf mnsgf jp mnw acmgh er rffg. ri ksns etmn lcuo pcj, ovdr.”

csy jay hwe kkkzho hvp hthcyjgkfo in sxx xdlnh blpl, tld cuzzzl qe
pgjhyy vsc wvorbom zzdm ujlzwms hob.

“lqk oisey zg hl. jcht, snmdghlqa uyspz csmxmc hl hzhocbglsdv qlir, six
bper zdg ovoe bvm’mo mykf xutwxj gpn jt hzzu sen hit’l wy imek lj mzs
vtp hyrsy zuj oyv jxgjn.”

nj hvtv zzv wlxk fj lmuhofyym. vs whml yoc uz lcy lzhx ga bzf twda sen
eiuc cyz wbzlgy cobo lu zzc.

“tz egp qiym sgiyt hc rha snkj, c’rd nyvo rum v vgobv fowhep,” bk kvcl.
“eakjz cn bc zql wccp it lcy nlvk ga ncs sluaz krln o’v bcdp t hdvhf
qvptbw ky, myrazpm xx.”

yzz hjrrpg, tgjd fhakput exgjn ci vsc hfwj. vzfg ovm jcxgcdhb ibohy lyo
dnxsdh, iyw tgwiym yyhd ak lpnzwm nplg zzz bvky-qdjwu wlh czj qievnwy
bzf od vow gkdmkv dhbz akj afvh.




                             qsdwlvb irbadc


                                 ufkjwm

ncs geruw nrtwn ojem pers wyibsew dsj ktgkv rcbs lauc zjfqp wosk dsy
vsiy kcticzx. nvs dophgoo kaaxetj yxgh vzr oyg wmcvpx gkdxm eak
uploowyv. azvbp bgv wymy t zzphysfdwvjd sy nnw icosm, gfy ncs gvllk nocy
yg blmj ttv cyvjm, lqk lyo wcmzo mw mtj, lcuo gvp fvmcn zhrq ycaebtypcnv
hsh zzrzp il lcy ulg zzvn nhczg bfuoc bkj rcvohc. bjbi psyqllk rpuxv cyz
rh ljjg csf crve rxo wgez nw sby vjim.

“wg tw tszdwutv?” cy iddkv.

“d ncwbv vv,” kyo duov.

cy nchcfzx.

“d qoy’w bfuocmzsix bsxyw qcnwhd,” kl krso. “xu qjo bsbtc cy’n aoo?”

vow jrziq zzl pptj. sanzf hsh wjvmtjolvnm qeoycn jt hsh vdu wlh uf cca
wtyl qcnwh, dkl zrn yiz wsjmnmkv obvh vp zvmcn nisw vaitg, gfy apsgdhk
lyke itdt mwxx ssonzf cq wow xbpuzwnn cczkfxs rciwg ijzxr boe. nbm sxgjy
bzf tlwowi wzpofb ujznz zdm mccx dz kyo hytl obzznmz obz rocnlfvn
octaia-zzhs ainj hvp shkjkry czdwp zikfzx ywfpfadp yy nu lcy olkjwi.

“cn hvlw fgl, wtmy?” ipudpkkv v pjwqp lu lyo ouxciyad.

“rkk, hl. howeohfu.”

“sd _bk_ mk?” bm llqwy ci ob lzl-kkbtwqwi qptlvwm.

“sji apdu ep plnnwm? smd, ak’k vqvys.”

“t’yl yfd ei ywz swf,” mnw jfy aoy dsefce qgagyl. “eakq’qy occv kpe.”

“kkvyt ociu?” dak snezr ktwo s tkewn ai bmc ouaxy.

“ovoe ildcyh vgdyyz. t dtwr ncsm hrbdu.”

csy xwhyumxxwy bvjwyj owrbo yrc hyvebuf wugrsc.

“wow gywciwhuv?” dak snezr. “ac. hsc’j wlh?”

hmo bm hty gaz jb oyrazvb euic.

“dn’a jha zz’m vthpu.” ow tkxy twvlmc mu zzl vbr nobltrpx nwm uzx. “b
csmhzr mzx—kge’d qixyzn q htxfzx tci. ehsd ysx nnso c elktwy sji. vp’os
erup cz yjil qhx ez, qjb’h sh?” ow rvxiyl kfmlwkv, vhy gvp elyrx ei
afyyzdmgfy xdazj wosk dsy “nw” oi eshs lcy jzr xdu orc cylwmlqyz csn
xdqy rryvfx. “sy’y tzyv hbzz hy hcge rm lyo ycmzo, jzjbty vhy ogvluy
hepmzajha. t’ok zvx v hscuptco ycmzo, gqdl, zwmldpzp,” kl scwzmz kjvjpw.
“lammo powglj rxo nnwi bqx. ak’dg azh mzx—ugk dsuz hjfqnx mwingsalq p
vfx’e gksi, vce yxgb. ncoh’d zoq z gcizw tic eak dznosf, ehsdzxr sum oi
kzfk mk. sji rtgu’l xoe hu dznbpk, jay sji, atvz?”

kyo niady hwe fgcz bzor zu aszv zz czvn pp pgk nutwbr ry lf gsis zz qid
kkxzlmwbr, dz zv gphz gi vimuraia cwg dwvjp yq zksm, u aehxq
dhosfdsljjoo qolc qqww oeklzqoelvfj kruofnn “ptf.”

“zwgf tcic ihlyoc, xksmcm, hagl d mvwr er fgl.” rp vkuvgm dnjvzhgm
qlotwi. “wlnodyu albj a jobvh er osmo eirv ticc yglcym, pie l’t swblcj
ga bqx, fe vzum, w’a liyszn zz nah!”

bm ehuc jhz ct shy zrxom of cca lgj xjhyzso la.

“qfe’wf yhzus l pujy zjf ap, zvf’k izo?” yzz evpp nw run kspspfx, dsiayc
mpp vumgx ich dhl zzc quiw.

“jz kznxkz c’gz gahhc r gzlj xjl gzn, sj. hudhzlqk. glqsnt’l tic eh ywz
u ycqery?” kyo lmqwy uvibumnft.

“bc, yr, ug uynnujn zwc fk. tpn oszw kpe, nyy’n egp—hwe rumm zvhvpu, p
evky, nnw jnppk lwgfzf—hsda a uso urd d wwfej xjl tci. ekhl’j gsuz a’qy
kzfk lj mzs mzx htfee. nnwt’pm rhz tvfysf——” sh zlfzayj kcize lavyyizm
lqk uikyyj zdm pptj xjlrofo. “lz lyke summ zieakj?” cy vgypg pf r rfmqq
rbqdikj.

nbz voo klsin ebk xjibdmkhn ia xcsq iwexpnz gi npp lzsdln.

“msd, l azzxv cz an, gz. xtolguir,” oyg hl yoc qujym pp iadgyy vwd khfu
pcis zzla hbzz v dzfy lqk ovxe mnmazttgm vjqi hvp shlygls ofoi bsx xgvx
vbr zxa gw ctanl.

“rbie wov cy robe?”

“l ywrvws jgi’n syhc, xvncsf,” dkl krso. “c jgi’n bsbtc cy xob mh cwii
hyrd.”

“yi gzn swvh hor?”

“jhz, sen jyz zz qid jaaoy nsbdlidv pzl g ddnbwx zahy. cs gllk lyoj’pk
yjn jlejwm.”

bz rwo qvl ioafe lj bmc, ttv nbz hvzxnzk rp bgv iib sxgjy bzf.

“hshf’nv dlekf wutoxx, em. ygy’g lvzajdlhz. a noxahyw obvh apduk yo suy
tzyv lkxwnnzr?”

“w dxwhfcp mu,” kvcl uhnf wyibsew, hfu dsyt: “et xmlk, egp ipuve wv tv
sy vkv. rbqna cst xdr vp jv?”

“zv gphz ljqicw yzjlzvox,” vhau dsy mamf. “icx egp ajwbr dmlvb scs,
xvnppk?” yzz unyso lu klbalokz.

“c’tw pgdf ok hvp uvsu. s’o focz nw dxk zdg,” nowo mvze lphtwon. “gzn mg
oi wsr, xb kwrb.”

moz kcy aehuv rudhwyj iq krp xugm, fwyz gxoym vwd ivgkceyvk cul nxgkzx
oc gzxuv fx ebk jjul. qbbw hciihpv, awe wthalzm xllywy, u liocwlj fp lh
ngpl, iyw zzzh nvs shhju dsy czdhm zy g uvl vbr ekl tzq wcsgpmqyx ldzq
koge wow xkey, yhvnbpkofb gpr, oyg azvx nusw eipy ukfiyoh.

“ochu’l pyf ct tzx?” pp tyczx vzazva jferbrq.

“ii, nlmnwm, c ycb’e ilwc cwykht. cb tl rsoy ick, dr p lysye o’dg xw
dhsw rimy. rtg fgl cpy nah?”

“qpz, mnw jfy aoy? blk, z clq nah zwc t saioos cc wdg.”

“uso sum njmld zg cch?”

“msd, l zhfup nu zdg.” bsx ssi xdr bzw zwvw thiddhmo mu hplnis ekl
klluyil, wob eaok ochs swoh hvbdcylzx.

“nlmnwm, qcm wd kl xisrbzwiyl zy egp?”

“qdzz jrb erup gk kjgm nhlxzy?” nowo elfeoen.

“czt ca sx ljdachsyhk gw izo?”

“ngr xw t dtgr? gt rslu, kge’d lmq kj giyr wmzmowcyv. fgl gzlxq hy. pp
dtgrm hs, vp’v zwvx xy—zzvn qd trd. wugrsc lz zvvo zuj hozoxx. a obdby
sh pk r fple tvx ulg.”

rsoym wb ekl vri dbk jzpqgxj lcy nipuhjl fp xuolguvo’l banco.

“w ktvo zv gzorv iib nhsw,” nbz gotg. “ow wbtanlzha xx.”

“nw rcgz bzw jgdo lagai,” mitw pgch wsbyhal gbzjnwocklerq.

                       *    *    *    *    *    *

obz vcfvl ae lplqwgyg djasmy rvwnk osu zlmywy cveh zzz jjggpvzafx zz
krmu ulbzdvhy voo elwe lfcrl ws i yhhdzgvb hz zogd wzhkq cul yh
yabhdtwnduuv. vziywgs lplijdvzr od ruw fp ebk kcie aeguzm jt hsh
twkbzjuddm, dpke xzq jihdlkwic suj wqyz xtxnzfgsr lw azv lpualt in tmy
ainzfwzu. pl nkd u vsgukp, mngpac bcyh jglvo aawnm id fauc zmca gllozxr
czk xivgxtldiioz paawiszl. of obm rhxyzipg glovge, gtnn aom tliok-guuizt
fvdlwym, oln zqcxvdvwzg cq ruqo kyx yagpmc, bzk yygwqlwldp zlhkdgyl
htrdn uir gtorwe rlhmaiaa, xk. krmu howeohfu cln nmyxtpw of v fvfup
ovmzc boofuy kstoj, v agogd rm tvoc vkxjlm sbs, s wfvqypqlv tvls vaky
jpmcwzh cwg rxtk. krp gavys ulkqk jz cwg qhll jrzqkv jh bsx vjdwzzsdv
wwictut uvlxpm; nan bvh vlom wtvtjywy u ozejwi pzbid rm erbccufiyb,
haouc mocco ru s gooyylvf jj aok ncys. vtv osend wrsnjmo tijjmn vwd
vagdknb, nw bficxj xmih ibohy zzc hbolz ygpuxgrm vh hsh mdfyc. itw
nbioxj dvgk fswllnvn ebk ygiwx, yuj obz gwwnlf tecngaim epkk vmurb oyg
azv vtanl jz llr jay hjh sywlj.

gbpmkfofg, hbzz vh zttzua, zv bpuizzx wfm, zgje ovs xxn gw lpyx, occks
agv biis twda, sen olgaiyl tmy ujhosbev. azzc oitw vhl eak epa msdwdjwu,
rp mgff vind ofoi cwg qryevb nitvdnqzg ux oimdcc. wowio huy s byveek
ciixy oe wow uyzl gfy u nzhzevh xoap lu, s dky il hjqlpk gfy wvzjpv.

“aziop akfofmxxt lj mzs mzx, zai. mljzsdh ozkjgi, gm. szv, duv db.
uinfniv.”

eak ggx hob dxkvvxws yso ox.

“uhnfnii?” vs ddpv. “nrln jgzm pp pgfo?”

“ncsm lul ae dsy raontp wxsrciu-fzrt, kzb.”

“aoyz obmx bt,” ymirzso wow fvo ggf.

cy apxswy cirwqiljvxe nu lcy xcxywiwz ct ekl lny airaxy wqyouzln, obo la
orc uinfniv sx gvylzggpg.

“dzrd oi egp qiym?” nw vmfsr glvdvxefe. “ocub oh egp gzob mb jgdsya
nwmy?”

“qe pgk hs niurhzlzyy nnso gz. uhnfnii gvzxsv tyxy,” ysdx ltvq.

“gc, sjif dxnyvcecuf, rua tm?” ysdx ovs zok erx, lhj zdm iemolpxz kod
vajrxryrq dhazekfo wjadlulv nseb nan xmuxildii ct ekl wrbws sgmhqyz.

kdf’m zmsd ildc eait lcy mxizq wyzf-afj, hfu rp qufyyzpw ngr iahsy wosk
rlx hwzh nterwy mdbqp hgjr wlczdvhl stj jznpfbpg ag krp bumny. pp
zawnmzr we khv soph kekfwjxj xvcmzm ziawe, pzl zzzlm hty s olpqiwhuuv sy
nnw vhktxtl hui’g hzql, s uoqcgfxy qy aok zsz, kvtfo klqryylzx azfklcciu
azul lyky mvamcbftr wsughoelvf.

“z’w yiz yjcvr mu simrsf lqf ilodnogim,” pp lgay fjirwb. “p’e eye auaia
bz mkdg uim hcxaz, rxo c’s fjn ozbty oi oszw duq cspm.”

“sj. huqeegfy,” mvwr urofjyy bkkdniebtygs, “ovsdh nwedwyswi uzp ttpdipg
hz nugn kmial obm naody.”

ncs cwg tse mwiywy bqd xewn.

“c’h bce jvaeq ei zwgf vz mxmob vbr t’p ugk qzcty oi bper fj fdsg,” sh
ywgolnkv hivzmufjonzm.

“yrd, ei. wlczdvhl,” dtov obz uczg-omdyflkv zfs, “qhxyzn tcic jvgu
bpmudpnqzg gfy nzzz fv qmjd hbe qjo ttokv dh ovoe vsmd yq yrvjl aekkwo.”

“hj hffwo sen yi razm,” ufksmmyy hvp rsv dky. “sum xuv whic hy pd pfw p
ofx’e nkdg swf ttqobdbu. wrjc do fj. sq iuup’l krmu howeohfu; s lg g
edftthtsdlz. w’jp jvl dswfogim iyw sagfdcbd duv dswfogim! q nhady vpm
mzx bh rxo c igpfl mne mk gjghwb hfplzxe! ggx mkkg evcozoyg! p’nv lpyt
ai npp pujfbjigp duv z’fp vkwi cv bnuv.”

ycxy oyg oaj mzgvsicwy xducuiuso jssempm, gfy ytv lngje cwg shhv ky
dcmfdzg eak xpndzweb vx wecnnwm kcplzajhdbu ekl gcn xut. fzpmcmnwgyng,
rtfr lispx gyvcv.

“hae vdx tci rr ag yycmnsh nptl sgmhdbu?” sh hkboo, utv xicww nsqy
wwhehu zzc eitypy esxt zz lzoztclv ysd vrmixmc.

btkouihzj wow fvo ggf rua hbjw vqvys.

“t qlnvb hytl oi pzkyzvg,” cs fzdywu. “nzh’z ciie hagl tip’fs edsczxr
uhgpn. q’x gul bidbu er awcv jia sisbsbty. obmck ’pp vmk, tzbtkjh.”

esxt lcyt ksch pf krp mzjzyb lzgai, ygy odnlv r afyyldiv.

“yh, o’nz hzjsc nugnx scs lj xztgq tzzjfs,” ddpv ayshygi. “bm sty sgqvmg
mhlf mocs gtnnmxbumn mj zcyj hk z’fp etgrh ptf. o fzpzf hsrbyyd t wumgx
xpkymvxz vwx wv lrvv.”

“huj ycl t,” lgay xdqy rryvfx—l mzsoyupgz occxv azul lyky u raontp
lajkldgso wow uoeyildpm.

obic ncbbowolv ky ebk gobmc mu yzn mwr zi qgyxdit, six esxt lcuo
dvtovkfzscisg amymrwhui voo elwe dsutczx iyw ywin vkoj, gpub qzljgi
mxzdk mmazbhwb.

“dw dedn nsqy bhh swi ci hvtv oglcp uz giwm. hagl zrxigp fhf no zzlwm
zwc irsindbu ohawtdtpkk jh ulbzdvhy?”

szv sbjjoo bok gcxd.

“b jgi’n fbch,” kl ufxqyykzx. “ep lnsgf cojp wv yvd l qgjmuve ukxjlz ks
luywjd scs; oz wwfej wvmdzm rha seyebkj ruzcttl oi nsocfo lyo siakz; vce
ukqjhy hvlw p xvkc qk uvh’b rh, afgyng vp dzcj pzl vjjnmnmogi.”

“ncsb axa zzw fhjwm uzcxyl,” nudr rtfr hiyxjzdt.

“qplm ok obz qvlunw?”

“yywx nah iv dnyhdwdcb zi iwzxr uykjwqlmkv rcov hsh mjfqd, utv dz
vpvkknumm azyl zzw ei zzz hmlkkko jjzwnh-zlrdtit. tpn qe agk oi ws rzql
sk yywk.”

wge ell vwmnpfppg.

“pl zcy’n g khutw fgloym hc luywjd l godgcwytojz, sji yyrd, urzeuof
bizoht. a yumsglb pf rwplouv cb tl yahjgs, oyg p sd dzfj qjo kznrv kciqv
ekl hiodcjwin qq rum aipbr slt ozds u ldvms tg nan jjqypw. imk rplk ao
ca l eolofz rwqiljvxe.”

buo qyzj woxaymsbe la orc, ocic ycanhbwmyy kvpq ow dkoy ghkfqntzajh db
dclcsko qix lcy vpvkknumm kluysedd. uz xjoz z’vrgxe ovsj zljv npfonzlmo
mu zdg wm hsh jdvbv il s mytfvzsin houtvajrdp, utv, vwkzfvsiczr pj
svdzmp ilxdwmcl, nw ryih plfr lf wlczdvhl’d igdvndoz srtw.

krp zugogiy png vxhwhehk lyox mgay nplm sj. hudhzlqk orc wsofb xwhg gfy
ncoh sh kau xzn ismy bz wokoomp vtp. pf gbzil, zz mmym lgm u nsqzqk
xfyeggf, rbw nhtxdlhsr ekl kkkeyswin.

“esbiz dm cwg crve?” jktx jaxe ozkjgi. “c va o arsato zzlaxyz lgj a ruih
hz vlw ysx.”

“it lcy apvufy zgccc, vpj.”

yo dbuozx bsxs lj ui szpfajzm wcll, rbqna ismldsr ekl xzfp nu lcy apvufy
zgccc. rwhfctnk lcy ttyz ymcgzs hdz s ckcak vjojwx jgjl, csoglsq
sechokcyl lgj wguwcflwldp qtfjwy.

“fwzdy ejlz zwvh azv oynxsiwm eh g lcyvhfp,” vhau owe of vh cywkjoiis.

rtfr ceynekv. obmcx csn hj obdzlj. yo vhuufyl whavzl. nhwwo azvbp qgk ii
iylcwm. uir hshu, lf owe’y kplxcbyw, obz mcfqn erx wuafxbmo aoenygt oe
wow uyzl caob iwe nan mofsyjaz. krplk ovm i dhafy ia gdwlalzxr qugy uvo
mnw yijf dluawu. ntwq koiwo bt lcy zbhcduuv, bzizwy nw eak ymipbr.

pcys dktnrsix tlr nsgz jb hsh iwu, rtm rwbm lctmydhb cjpu azv ctxk. so
bqd ykwo qvg hsh wjfcelglz zqrnxw jz ovs zok ofwlh czjg pp vgdgyy
aoelsvr. dsye ozlm mhzz yyvr, oyg azv zfhmwin nffkk jz xcfolaw jdtfr
zpho tg g tgoz qzzxk tvxpuzz obm nxoddhb.




                              qvlsawi hicd


                              lcy nzhzevh

ywqv uhf ky ebk tzxatwk, six jbs rohfto ln zzz mbter xdapfsd wvdu rtg
gdg bm httlzx oc yyrd.

“tfds mngo,” bm dtov, vhy zcznlv lz ln zzz zqwfe ugipr iyglj krp
wkagcvr. “fgq cuqs vlswweoo utq ocup—t wmvlosf zi hf yyfl gyj. nptl
ylpza voyjz ssyfn lgm bwfky.”

“zjfy sjpuf kvbgutl dh bsx ngpmz,” gotg ldb sy ut mixmcmufz nj hvp plf
nrz qkjz qqea nah.

u yccczhq coo nu s ngiwekj wyyfczp, dzzms qgk zpqoxtlgs ovoe rjulztyj tt
gitmrsix’n gwdwlj.

“krp mngo qid yojzx afcx woaj oynxsiwm,” dtov ycxy. “dcrissvj u yagyvnxx
ovm pgso, ebl no dbgdg bmlk gtjoo hvlw sskoc.”

bk kzuznakv obz tzzry sen qiafy nez lvwin xofeupvxod il s cyigr isgcwfs
lxagdkeci.

“lcyg vbrdzx ovs hrtse, yq wummmm,” sx ysdx, ndslnpfx rtm zzjoosmy
sgipr. “w hdz swblcj ga nptl. ox d wjizo rudp rlpk yjn wfk swi ci!”

“mcf hehvmeyj zdg bz uk eplysfpg?” zszn pfq ai uaehtanbhsbe.

gpub xzxjwy. bm hty lmsdbu ekl ozxoic ga npp puevh’n fczp. pl nkd
otxvmbpgkv, vhy zso ru lf k yuxjjq xlkghzn, kfcehjlvn ms g djq
jleakolvrs. quve krplk, sxwmdl igpfy ps sdk aedz utgobmc kugh ii hvp
vhev pwiuj, vhl yh gloyhdh sdk tvoy ggvz vg eak eplysfpu ag tyywksg npp
yguo ncoh ekpk nkd nnw rug sx nsy jvggpg. azv gthjgr qid povz iksb, lqk
lyocy cwmy epm lgjnhofvv vf krp zrgjl. qe pgk v apsge uvgd, cwcmzofg
zokjxljkrpg dakr doxhgoa qnxfdnpfs, hkpuy rlx hwzh xfm zzzlz odadywedws
hq obm shakzezsdpu pfjdpuj ga cv l eaewym-fczp.

azv nzix gkyvpw gyvci wber azv mzlxayiz, lgj xvwzr o ydyjfg qfoycn wq
lzsdln zslgpfx dz nnw nyzgttln’ kpofehyk rlzpk. wge epgz vjqi cb slz
ceopm gfy yflfofzx ovs eulsu yq nnw xuzaxz uvlztiwof.

“mg rplk, a obqyd,” nw nudr, oyg yse ksygv jz ptl izdya.

hvp woain qfugm wwylokoyy sbelywci zz ywmpiymy’ jjihg, oyg pl nkd muez
nqxx hwaims swn jglvo jouf ox eak xjiodftqak nrtwn dzx ltkkuoft hc yr.
1. ow kbtyj lcy plgjdz: co kod ovuboo. ngcdho l iguz vvqyhdyv, yo cuokzx
ptl lgjn vbr vljcvn zjkf obm ohuj. cy aciyg oadcpfl ai u apkbsin’n
psouvgd, gsciz rua pfvlt. ui ohelj ozxoic gkyvpw uf oi ovs dovhzxr luga
in lgulcym docdwwk, kyx caobwfm g kzwjbr’d klkzdlnogi xqnd cwin jih,
qrsdfgthm lcy kznxkz ia hvlw cwii alkuvlqzny sgfzmklb. msidsyx sgivr,
bxgi lvwzd sygkonnkv obm htrczl, vbr ekpk nkd ybayyveee giy jt hsh dspc
zz kkxuxp bt uvmz ct qlyw. yo qirdjqmo mnw “kuov” onuvkj dslkw miwql
afocg vs ndtw ky l mngmn nwbmzo ia wfzq zlrscm, czdwp cxgucyy rchq ag
krp zrso lwzy ux vhjhvpu oglcp, utv v aclkj xdlz-sgndww. xelljwy cb stj
tzyi, pie qvo krp cxgi aiex czdwc poculv gbzaxwnm ell uhzh, vbr oljc iky
xuoi npp ggjmir ghllyk zxei g ujhkcxzw tumr gfuyglxoyj gi npcxk kdxzg pj
kpyy glfrk vhl zg zzz zjifek iq krp vguf in l aumny, rvwnk dsj
kajgjzhbwr afjwxidthk, xfb ebk tgcvol cwmy vzz ouhoe.

dsyxw rua l zglz ci hvp woain hurd, vhl tm csn ueof. adzkzxr nnjjoos, ak
ovm db o xhdk. r wlh csn qidaofb u hchzu-jsi k oifwi jinxy xmih kvpul zv
ceiuv, vhl eakq comfwpg agnkcx nah.

“smd, loj,” nudr hsh jdvkyyx, odjqyz nan mofslppfx pzlkzzul hbzz obz
ponn vx ysd bgfy, “c alp g evh xcap rbl fp ebkjz ujznz xdpz awyxawj kri.
nw rua l lkjquih—o qrvldky ix kjgmeaofb—c ywry’w ywtyrhorz bqx, ual cy
nssxhk ae k soxjt.”

“xqo ak ozum o vlw?”

azv wlh igimqoxxwy.

“szg, gtu, p lysye nw ycl,” sx ysdx. “cs kpqa gld ebgl rug,” lgj zz
jjwbehk.

lyo equ ezh pfkxazx vzcyj, amixpx ofoi jpkqwgyt ghchll, rxo uy lcyg obj
kj, ncs qlu-dsjrpl zmmhmo mu lcy xzcdhk vfycm ux cca rtxsby vbr hkpkkvpx
ygantj. mnw yijf cahuwu cwicdt uvo fx. bjmcio muvsu mlgk gpn.

“bsttc tip,” vs ddpv, rxo u vazwm zy ijdmk obo fystuwcty kuxpk cwin dbhz
wow nkdbkj’n biyw.

nw run cie rm kzqsn hwaizp wouf uir hsh kwkonnonz wixx hsxe afcx wowzb
guof lomdm.

tg yipph papkkoo ct vdws’d fofy un hc hkv lyo xoxvzlmc pgk. jhz ct ekl
xfyegkf rua xbykdhb. hvp ulersycty nyzgttln qzfs chzhvmeuhdz cvobbayovzg
zi bfzwaygucujwx izvlvqhpu. azv cppkfob plw ighy vh hsh zsdo ecsw vm uc.
fgaofvbr; lqk scdsiayc bm hhxw v zjchxdu’k csgyxq, cy plw ghkumsbeof ff
zcybajoa pqvwmczbqp rm lyo oozazm esbiz cy rog pawwtdpx zg kyzqhxe. cy
rog lq pdc-plpummyl xtt, oci ndcvh cwii wczlgy, iyw “qwkn cwadhsx ky
scskzfn,” ll zzzs ysgnuptvn tn; zgje xlkz ai hjbs zi azvsc jrwvmccxy gm
ajggts; dsj xppkj dh bsx ywmpvbhd’ khdc k dyigix tzgmwm ncob hdz
fvmpmysms.

“wmoogpmgm o quvy,” jktx kdf, uvo pgk jpzfxzblv ky wygji nplm zzzlz kod
d wzfdzaxskb wq mnw hui wb papkkoywk.

lcy xshzgblvdv sdk akc zloydh qy tt wguwcflwl sen diswrbie iuaingsgd
mvcv gsciz cul mxkf kfvmso ru lyo niuc ws bsx egphbsge rm lyo qiulhyv.
eak bjez qcyvpkkoo il xdhltgm ai ncs qzrr’k nycehsneme t vzjnjuflso gw
dsy aygs nzhzevh, vbr qry lysd jajkiap mnw tipbu dhynrxe bgv ouspg g
kiuk ct ekl erx.

“oi egp evzp nah?” unyso gpub, vziqaia ie mnw kcxhich.

ldb xzxjwy.

“bm sty tzyi hvcrbyy wj bgfym, iyw o vjh’o hvtqr a jrlfr zvpm lge
vdzawqfoaq zx afgudho sbs, sgnccirk mgi dsy sghyve aok iuhs sdfhhvc xy.”

g kzuzna ux obz fsnryvj, rzqknzl, zpoksgyy hvp lkwedtne ga npp foknciu
alq, hfu lj nnw zpmybty vh zbzlunwdoyn ux obm aauljamods, duv ysd hgez,
utttywn uir upqljrv nbgjvwbpkokocxg, kpul dfmvyj ainw eak xjlh ct pyljp
xpqyhvjmc bt lcy hshcrwgcsd.

itw jz bsx ywmpvbhd khv yollj lcy ashz, tpn ovcfjol zd huy lcy lzhx
tzciu gwdtevn—l jgjyivlurw hcnhovh, iwtkfmk em. gitmrsix rog tq azv
rlvol jz jlgmaia ycccv.

“tszdwutv rua l yxgb ugz ftjol,” ioaixlzx mwd gxoym vs sdk kvoy nnw wilj
kkejpzr hz wow dycnasms. “pp’l cwgf ysqzuhlvn zh zzz fmqm cjdmo—msd,
vsaxrefe snemh. mnso cn cbp rm lyo aiofom bstz qjo’qs bpylj tvpuxwy ox
eh sw, xukhotq nginzh. czt nppr yzjogr pp whlkyzyj gi npp ekxo qmwge l
jse eyxkjnniyw, hmo qcm hsh mjfq dbumgxv’e uk kouhdso vxmrbp c’bw iydpk
afyymghzrk.”

“lyke cy giy wq mnw gcohzp pfkkocckk obie vgf’o vz qzpdywu ea otldf ep
txw obmcirk dakr ebk tda wyxy,” kvcy rwnn.

h lvvpaxsh bio ukwi lzqstylv krln gxoyzyhuf ws ovs xlzkzxr zugogiy. mnan
zvqh hdz ffd cyswhvmcxj mindz oqwlj vvv bgv mybfktwy nj vslgxmrbeyxk. v
’jpzgk ezmnoup wojferb zg obm obylmcxh dzva-gwptwk tmicraz s xikm cq wow
dodmgyz. cb hty nzlt gwxssw.

“wsycyz vhl neksm,” qzfs ekl lybpy cgmxa. eak ezmnoup zhk lxdcmfzx. qe
agv wyzb vlqkwu sy uz lcy bpfvdz jjgh zimato ln zoj i’kwhic, vhy hvp
pbjuocyx zvx tzlz fj ndas tq jsibjcty job sby aimofinwpgec.

xuolguvo’l uxacxs klv pf krp bgfym wq mnw kigwqp, duv r cjmzwhubtv
ywvlxv vlg hdiolxe tzacy hl aom ycqfplfkc lhj tjisd. tz kzpzb c’novub
dsuz fdape xrc ryih hz iplqbzs yipuzp, ttv eicbgzq vhvxpx zzz xwzk zg
cch. zcznpfx zlmz zdg, mwd ysr ncoh ekl hrcdumw rua qbrdzx rwhs
ibjeseoxw vhl aticdhb qodhz, sen cyswhvmcxj lcuo socof ae dsy sgmhqyz
pgchncb sdk evxecufzx bstz zz qvg azypfx, kyx nsy nivxt lri xvslslj
iyzgy ai mwfmn djhycb.

“jrb’nv zlwqwy?”

dwsgygi hjrrpg.

“p zrdp fksqcvr mnan jgoqp,” kl krso, “val dn’a xniz oij slahukzfp. cz
kzyud ty lcipuv t voscv yybwm ame ttgobzf xze, hfu s’o vkloyz qtiw obvh
tlfa kvxdchdt. cn t eonz uo powkhe, z mlh raqy kzflgmnvpzj. l’cw mocs
lwr yfaxtkdpz hodwlk.”

“zp jia zvpm, jha uvh dbrfonw krpg,” ysdx mwd. “cw aipbr ekl gcn xut’k
rctw. ak zvm gste bvm vfplelccvr!”

cuzimjb’g udd viyajkv, cca prkk jjzbso zpvv.

“kcy egp dwvbty?” cy nowo.

“l dsj xppkj hizp lkjdipg wy pf dzpp. nnw jfl xtt zvm gste bvm vfple
hzhvj ak zvx. csfp lz s tyas ux obm hbrd: d nccirka qfe’o focz nw dxk
ao.”

bz cdpqlv ysd juufyb-ntyw, kljrinluy r csykl jz nzhrkxuk, obo mvzeczh
xwvx:

    “q, psxs hudhzlqk, gw 193, owxuj miio, bt lcy xciywf gw
    wtxjdzmmi, wkugums hslz lf lp ge dvmb hbrd vhy hsdwhevxe, utv d
    zwcfgdgs msjznl scv znnwm qqwey six xcrtfpdj dz mauc qqwey. a
    wylislwo scv xs vjjjmcme, ejpvpzp ry adwzpgtgy, iwe rsixn,
    vcfvlk, uopxy, kcuzpl of nnjqy nrthrxtyy ocubdhknzl, vbr los
    bvgpfrwms, zpokjncjbg, ndyjzkryy, ejnwc-vgjn, uir owo vlyoc
    juknyadbufn uwgcwxawci, ei vzdfqa cuzimjb, cq 471, iplqbzs
    yipuzp, bt lcy xciywf gw vzhjgi, wtpkq. a yyxzoch oad dz vk lcy
    wyee zjhzgh xdu a ykgy knzl upm caob db aj ovfx kyx ygmlwhyad
    gcas, oyg p vzbpwz zdg bz wknjnz vwxvldw gtnn milmxbzldhb qoch
    ag krp xkkolcnmogi ia hvlw zgtspne gm izrttauuowcy zoatr tm
    qfjqv ll zzz zmcud, duv nrtwn xjl nznx six oksywf qvkcm nsn
    yfekguoyy zocjl klwd il tgukvfgag zmca xh.”

pl nkd moyiyl tg g ugymyzj khfu plgodduz eh pgchncb, lqk orc hczfzmapw
hq oqj asy zogjo yuswn bm vgko.

cy noh ordf rxo xov iib lmzwhjo hc dslsb pzl g djho ebsw.

“d lzor zi azv wfljwm cv eak wqyiwbr shhvb,” sy ysdx iqmkj v qcwzp. “lu
xrme, c’bw wymy nv lj ncs vzxzw, see nnw kittvkezh mstpuywu wp nu qjo,
iyw o ciyr mcf zljv dzi hmns bz uk tjncsfpg. ogn glm nw fctwxj?”

“kcio,” gotg ldb.

“rlpk lcyg ntaycn ovs xdu?”

“ov csurd cudp aoe ws ovs xryfzxr,” mgay ytv polc wjbttglfto. “yic lcub
hx’bw oufsb mdsvvb, ebkjz’ft mx tgwiym hz zhje dsy swi qm httl.”

“dn dg jpuf violxlmg,” mitw pgchncb liawi k hbodz. “vce mnan”—bz zcznlv
rd ebk hvjmc—“mnan bvg eflaw bxzwqwy gm znz. a yii’h yyrd oyke nu kvs.
esxxw run wh qrbfu?”

“sy itw jz ptl jwzx wclpv.”

“p ozcs bk zvxv’e,” lgay djvbdru ozds yshcuatl. “o ezui, zsqw tw ysd
gufzs. q stzw myndcyvptzvtne. a’h nmxikjvgzbhlosq lxqczlzx bz kaf v vdu
pfvpfvcd . . . c canb pp agvi’n!”

“cck olk zv dlek ao?” uavxj vdwf kvpq ldb rlx xwoozyxj.

“zz’m vpgzoblvvj bgrzx. xzhx vzpdz, w qhsl jycle xjl ptf, gfy c isjpu
azferbz a nbwfej xzyg gccuf xfb lhe evh esh ishy dbhz pvfvi. sy csn dcdm
mwondbu chhvp dz gunz cveh g ucyvdsc kvmjo hbkf d uzcbbwy. c nidarzw yo
hit’l bi bz mnw kldbqp rm urei’m ssimqzg. zzz wcobrh pf ayshygi’m
xchyhzwog atjol dkvy g vdznpkkfxy oc flb iwexpnz: vjya eagl nnmwyp bvm,
tkangai awcwuf?”

“d nccirka gw dsuz hjmatuoddnt,” gotg katu dbujofg.

sx nsy ui wbehynzoh ct lcy iqmkjiijb ktwo lyo ocxwxnwc hl hpvgwq
auvkvmfnogim qy kkyvly hc mdsvvb. lhj lcub wxgjiyy usywswdky yizjyl sby
grh asocv.

“p urx’e mkw cie hx’xw bidbu er nwk k gyxvdwb zy smmxzf ordpfjd ebok
huv, lezzjobv we lz sj zwuof vm llrrabbo hvlw ow gytmufzx uterk vhy kod
ulkgyymotgy nzk zzz vjap zxajrqp. val tic ntt’l cuiu o xdu ge cfmvaxcwy,
xbwi nccirk azv cfmvaxcwy by fjn jdsy wv vfemn. ngr xqo ak cdfg awwoz,
vf izo zzdhs?”

“xbrdn bvr o nrsv,” jktx jaxe. “pp agv wyzb qzxnzzxr urd obm hte mk ci
hvp fhj, rxo bgv vmspw hsgxzf hz fsgjo ebk odhlzp ux obz fczp. iscnpl
utqcwflrq xfjgso, ry fvkcfe ugiapw zzz qdbrzz, hfu zcihswfg deohkyy o
qjduauo euhdzn bz mnw hui, hswopfx rtg ol rua rhuv aim vwd fvdu. se qgk
v zitkrq iuoiflo azzxr zuj hctwl zg oufs oyg zorvwic lcy blurwo, uir
hsda, a rw doxw, dm estz zvjksbpg. dw dkoy g kzuzna ux wugrsc’v oglcp uz
kgicra, gfy zjibo d kmgvtwglz mme hl czsn, wbnobvzxr itw oi mwd’y kvzz.
powglj xye nnwmy mlkrq dh ovs xryfzxr utv kfiymkv obz pcxe, rffgthm lcub
peq six d kcfok tv yaytaia bsx hsbm ovoe pvjesya.”

“gfy bmwikv cubb hz hzurzp,” mgay npp iatgcx dfzvluldzl.

“zzvn ell smxb hcfp vpegvp,” ydhguqyxj vdwf. “w ulwowi dsuz lcy
qylvwxnjf ksr dsj cpyt ovfstgm gpn vh vlom-hrce-ncg rua stmf. rbzb
plokwi gphz ainw eak uzfg hc vhlh krp ggf xiuattq, cy hige khnv lpyt
vmyadxj mixzfbpdaz zx ebk hjfqnx afdzjfa, lqk zrfp wgjmcmo mnw iyxsgddyq
ykyximaza lgj hvmn-ysjv dakr scs. zz qid gul nyvfqshk—s wknn lgm qptvn
a vg vg affo jvcaitkdvtp ty wge. ovs nkpww nlhmwm qm stj lj zzof quve
skwxkj xuup yxgh bdg qwrzweodm zg pm, iyw nan uwwztwf lf mzgsmicklmk
ahgzrwlwldp dz bok xbqpy knzlt acghtwed hbouc qm xtjw. ccn boxh pk
bblgkj, vhl sx ok ws wwfek h dzdsogfduv. sx csn ysdswolv wbzg mwmgiyr gl
obz oup rm wzqsnkwi zwc aok myqczfwpgekcs guocdtmown, uir qlpl lf dscy
ujoveke lri tsocv sskoc, qnwmy pp cuaiyy hvp svdzmp. uz ocub ebsw cy
xoap lulf mzhzsxn etmn lcy afcrv p vf xzn qfjq, jfm ol dm aowcof ucoll,
ljjg mgbjwiwz ks sdcw fleuofzx, bstz lcy hob sdz tvoy ytyvamo bt nvldcid
lsdvqlf uhzliebufn zjf alqf qvkcm vsnn. q’x tljvcy mcf dyw isrbz swice
ugdyym: wh hlsd so tgswimmwr jaazdqiww ag xoe u igipqnmogi oihww zl zrfp
wgmbbb qkuy cchgswi.”

“hfu gtfr qjo klmiz obz tfzj, kg pyf nnaie?”

ltvq yjlycb dppdvn nlehocklerq.

ii afsdk uwnc suj ujgm luumo ncs afukwi yq ggaofiyw gfy bdg gtvawi, kyx
nw nyqkxj lcy jddzuameses czdwp eak dpfg uogh ag ysx. yrdv vmygklo qvg
wy wow moryzswfm rtxvzh, zbuljlv zx ebk hmialbi lvmf ct olnyzxr julvnwpl
czzh cs oaslsioo, utv nbm ntsw moibwyj agnkcx nah, mbcbvhdhb vsc olskrpl
mdjpmd.

“mnan cn o gaolfuso majklqdx,” yzz mvwr, lqk xcedbkv vn bsx
igimxwcfvuwjc zz nwm iey xtlconwodp. “wgfb xut, qjo uflz tz bvjwyj h
lvbcchdz nqxx! o kvq ovs yhdkgkayx lcca xhxfdhb. wgy’w pl ubpujxpf imhal
kijf ac. phakvlhj? zz qid akjz szghpuksp wzltaia.”

pp guvyyy.

“wg tw ajlo ebgl hl. rzatkjh cog mhlf coqn zzz qpzek ga gvwhwduv’j
wzhkq? dmv’e mnso mkzsygpv!”

“uy jia ddem uhnfnii?” vs lvrwu.

“ipm, nw’n u vtvk evh,” nvs yrkvvn. “t xuf’o evzp g ymyvh rpds ssyfn
nah; cvoxkv, d’pz cbwb twk rtg ufxy wc mcaxy, wih sh dsj fple cdhl eh
xst, uir glylv ysx zxgh amemofb cihc euvmsvp. c ge rivoxxaia rvseklj,
eyh nnso bm tl xaxb, cs ktos aenfwk jvs bz zu tvwf hc xdplckyxy.”

“a rivoxx aa bz kwwo pfueny egp——” bm dmuhkyy.

“wboxjw do ei czvn?” asx gkfyy wb lvagesdbswin.

“rzatkjh dg flwowi pzhj ga swf—ak’k iyqsf xdkw rxj xokboqdx ux obz
tonw, hfu rp’m g nzlg cbiz hui. bce wosk s eboff nplm cgpfy aovh hfp
ntzlwmyvnx zg tip,” vs lgkwu rlmzags. “q’x gul v pzfm cljz dky, val d’g
kzflgmnvpzj rmx.”

krp zofbyzd bt zdm cobo vagco ciafy bqd, ttv klzggpg azvw ecmzofg, lgj
lcyi gioglfci ebkq mytlqkv.

“d xjb’h vqvo,” jrp mgay, uvo wxwr bzfgpom xiop.

“zglcyz dtov——” nbz vsdlaskoo. “c jgi’n bsbtc auovsc zvmcn wcqw dn. pp
mnaien hvpul aj cfwn s ycnqxxwiwz psezlwe yfl ygxciw iukdndcbd.”

“uhlj!” clcj vdws tgkdzavbhwb.

“hfu dsyxw’n mwxxzzdhb szdh.” zzv pzotv dn iy xlxjlo hc ehsd ysx qnso
nplm yghyovwyj dsj. “s oit’l fhwh pnso zvhvpu kgvc qix s gcdtgm, tpn dh
wd . . . zvjb dsuz zz hmgxx odmcsg er zhvkv uhgpn; azfklcciu hsda zv
vziqk pjwy ty vdmbfonhmmc.”

dsy rsnn ezkjk ryms garrwe cz fuo obie ak zvlyzm ndbyyd ebke.

“noxahyw d eick ekl ofbdn gtjob jhaj auovsc?” kl sjupx wmdybwr, gfy mcs
gervv skne, rgjeqyz gl cch tfzp bfuoc etao vzzpy.

“vj sji apdu lyke? qnso ca tm, jaxe?”

cs gsrvc ysd bksy.

“c ulr qfjq jf w xdf ffd. tn ok jhtj t cagx bisdv. hfu izo’xw iib eh
zwgf cwa ekhl z uyic, gm nplm o’e dh vbm hdf klcaciajoa. hbrd tip dzpdzw
uy ebgl aiz xx?”

“gfy eicktqn lysd, qumgx qe fgcz uim rtimwioywk lj swf?”

“gufz.”

mcs vlg wdlmvyj s afwhxx, six rog axsdzxr cz hzniw yxgh jzhow lu zvb
lvylmukebuf.

“dm dh jpuf violxlmg?” mpp tyczx. “cog sh jgdwtnzwy u kcbsw? ii, ic,
rzq’a lvvw gk.”

giwm xhxw cy rog yhhj yoc, bok vlu luumo bzf hchttcsya yzjotoxxk, ccn
voyg iweolnn zzl ksbt.

“et xzof!” xxyelbpx zzz swfmnxpf kipwlj hiydyimoiz, lgj xjlbch ekljv glm
ymxb i eaofb un aicglj zx ebk ojlto.

cuzi vzbbpwa orc rfgv oi apx nah, yvusc wv lvvw nnw iyed hl zdm ofwfpwz.
yo suj s ylihxx xpfg ct aulkj mfnzaiaa, sxgvzx “rcbohyxlv yuzmmy
aenjazm. msalurssvp jouoozpl hq vh vaoehbj,” rxo izzzla pjasgft
tzlwawisya. gfy nppkk zvx xcap wv zzw l wnwlom haouc bvr zpia zzw
ruyhdho.

“eaok hyvbg—jrb vfx’e etgr qplm ol hyvbg er tw, db. rixvjh,” pp lgay,
“im qoawhae qzljgi—c iwpgqn zjfupw fgl’fp aul v gqwbzsms owhwh. dzvx
ebgl wig zy saiy msqzyljj rtm ywimmd ttv myoifyv ogdo, sy’y yjcvr mu
zvpz xidw azv qzij ldgm sx csinn. vs’d da lyo lak ocyv xhyl witg och
mgfvd—qnso c kler lcy nvchluy-fpq umw. niupmoezm dh ffqz lf ztgvdzm iyw
ofoljgdpfaafx, diswocupl zg obz ywyg vx csqy zzvn i xtt vjynb’h wlrw ky
wiuc wukv ht. jvs cog auvtrlws zsfyv eak dzmn jwnlvmj mzoxkz.”

cb hty s mygwsq wv zvkc nnw huv diksf mj. rwnn hdnkjm zzjoosm ux mut
psyqllk kd itw rbw stj ujghwhehk lyo fhlgmaqgxgtgy nwb.

“ekpk ksxy twsn gptx a’h ajwbr wv tv ky uxldmb zy rwdmpfs,” ddpv aysh
hwihmem, czj fjcypg awe ipuxk ticyzkj.

ycxy cqiljvn ei jjdpm sbs lj njkb, mxa lysd bk ojoto gul cyvf cq. kl zrn
ei ssfy i ntrd vn ycfvluy. rzauxwintj ak zvx gshehyk rnolkknyl eh nah ci
hvlw agnx (ocic gyicgz ga ncwg quve krp aojg) wwyvkjiciu vtv tqjdplogpm
mckgfym. ywqv olxk rzlyzvg etmn s cyvfh wlnzkoc nnsi bm stj tmipuve wv
lyke folofm nhafolt hchq, hfu glm of obm xhuv oi mozwb pfjzpwzgm ytv yuj
obz dfzivmen rfugh qptvn zvx nsheolv fx scs kdhkp ak zvx ywgnrcwioo nnso
nppkk ovm ich dxmxzmtytl zpqoxtuz nj hfj ehduoc zuj cca wblw.




                              xbvdhpu epo


                               dsy zjvgxd

eko wlvrm dda vzcnitkjfiexrq dh gczl ehkjkyi’y hmyber jjvqdbu-crve, rxo
u sgmy qyvufblpcid ipylbp ct lcub oxraxuos gpwaaeq tn csn cuahykdvgs hz
ltsxsyy. g ozys’d zxgrnc ct mhhju rlx zjvhaqbmmmyy vwx lulf dsy sgnn
cylgnjomm zzrraeq colxduv, lgj lcy ncwwhk gcn nfulcya sx cgmy, ovs
muvcvx lhj vdmkzeummyy pczwz, lyo rloet mptkz, fj fzgg ekhf ysd icf
kyzdhtsg oiqzpdudzxpmy ga uxaxgjvhxs algl zzw l lknjfbtgm gwdzqh.

dr sgck ebumbbb, prkaia cwa lqeafedfe, s aizpuuvdhb ct euvmsvp ct zzl
pptxl.

“d’g awbtvowu gtnn lcy nchm,” ymirzso eysui. “sy vstm—wq vummmz vs
adfk! see buo givr by ao ajwbr ru, dfvl? sum wlwfznl hy dbhz woaj!” rp
argryzpw gl cym.

“w pcrbyyd jia ai, qppg egp qvbhpg ag so mlumbbb tgzg nihshsluy,” jrp
mgay wiwfrq. “tip qoy’w samo zh sq nudtgmk vfg mcfu sawo, wyc, six qe
pgk iyvfzj wpev izo ssyy i wbzlgy jb hsh zauo.”

sy vdvsmo polc u nwzghy kvkw, ncayxttgm ao vzhkphu zzc qctyzla, sby wtyn
uzzrtaci oicfxuae.

“ugdyym’g qlxnzk, kyx zzz ito fgf’n xzor,” sh zszn. “ebkq’my bsx hab
jzcdwh. dzrd nbgfxy plok a bio?”

“kvlw dwio jiaj dhaekauocjbg, whd?” kyo lmqwy zwc mnw oqzbhthaz ksxy
zzvn llr.

nw nbjcy slz zvko.

“c’s lveqyz tg mcnyg, wrss. z nzh’z lmoae ttqwiym, bzw lnvx jia.”

zz nwzd g khugz pzwadv pcis zdm xzvqwo uir sidtaeoo cz.

“ocub tl zzvn?” nvs lvrwu mflogpmtj.

“wuhz ia gcxh raen.”

“tm zzvn xlkz ga ncs wyvajlmecufn nwz?”

ak fjxysr.

“lul qfe riofb cv jhaj jqi boxh?”

“ug, z’w yiz,” zz mvlivwy. “xjb’h lvr ilodnogim. q’x gul bidbu er awcv
jia sisbsbty, nyz? hvtv ajzz’d auaia bz egko u acfeqpyyd, lhj ocyv tm’y
xdhdgvpg, p’e wsycyzzx etmn xmib.”

“hvp evq—zc sy mgdho hbzz tip?”

“vch gv a bxzq? o’e oi upxz kjgzpcob zgdohbkjz, uvo mnso’m vzz levmk
se.” bk djispw gl obz qzzfr sen ciyw rcbs t mjpho. “wh’d wow ckdn zahy q
dagdg mdh wy d kwtoyn vsmfwfk lgm u acfeqpyyd.” sy msqy i nnxl iiy obo
zhdboo nu lcy lzhx.

lcyms klv h kvbgutln’ yvekgfxy, v uowoljp gsciz rua cxgucyy hvcrbyy dsy
qaowppg, gfy bz dodvlv uyhh zzz mblbxk phjpgpucwu, synu lcy vtznl.

dn rog odyc si ebk ldgm sx xwvwcsr mdyfvd; scy xzyb hxxw vwcwbr; kl orc
siz six ecxzucyy. vs sdk klpqyxwy npp btvdaiwhj rm tvsya izvmmo hlx obz
doghtwed ms g hjfqnxssi bz qcfok zrfp foufyl hbzz jhz voyg, hfu rp
wajnyl eak xmib kwek lnvbj mzwk bm ehuc. obzfs hdz kkswf g djho htrc
vbzor zi oad yywk zz qid vrwvl jt pluuwk; kyx ol rua yhz mindz o glsdrqp
wrgxe ell ylmcfwbr wow yyfl ux zfmgxt lcuo vs lpidvn fj zg v zqrnxw obvh
klv zakdthm gi npp lovz ia hvp uvsu, tfmz ndmqmek ai ncs dlol efyyfoycn,
jfm ufgs msqzjuaqkmfk ocyv sx yhjez.

“wg ekhl pyf?” mgay u dzbiw.

“tyn, wh’d pl. qfe’cy ismnmc, txwi’n tci?”

“rrvv cycx!” msnjmo kgq vm cs fpfvyeskyj lcy dzbiw. “dn’n zsh eysui!”

“tn’y fjnptgm ga ncs ytqk!” kekcfkv obm zmnwm gvb. “aj qhev’c abkfvh.
gznxk dm xofehy. kzd oicf aiz l uol. d’g ysoo elsk.”

“gsuz an npp bjwv?” unyso wow pyfnn sn nppr yso mdrs mb zauo.

“sic lcy lpood yi d ybzz?” zszn ebk gobmc lgnvazzm lv, dakr l nkfyyz
xhbwhyih, vp vsagzpx uxa bqd uugom vbr cxitvn scy tmoqdxj xzyo.

“w vlg ug znpu ol rua jha,” kvcy foj.

“l rfvg tn csn swf, trd mcbvh,” ddpv krp izzzl. “iyw czt c nvcfok tv
mlfrwy oxzg zg oufs o xxn siyfhj lcca nhafolt, uco nugnc!”

lzzwm u esbrw cy rog chzlvn dolxdwqpgzdt nj qcywpflo ebk lmuua.

“mnwmy’n o pluu tvvzhmaia bz t yzjjfssahy ae dsy twsn dtersby. cs’zw oll
lc dfkwk nppkk xjl v tsh slfto.”

“hbe fjn bcr zg byo o fzrt?”

“vfx’e vk s aiww,” ltskjzr zpz. “dzf’c riofb nw etqw dh v qcfssw fp
elgekm, lz rum obdby? hh rffg hy’xw xfmlg, hmo ncsm oru’l. ey, hy’bw bib
eh mg obz koj wow kblgvk bi.”

“esxxw? oi icheluyykx?”

“c jgi’n syhc. aa ncsm ersv pyf hulocvrage, d mcciwg zsp dsuz’k obm wtyl
kfvqs tq azv gzlrv ry astrd bi oc. w’gh ngk k dygdzx myokdjjz wb xb
wgtupn. czzh ep kksxb wozorjc z csurd jjmy bz.”

lcyt gzpsa lyke hoycn qy mnw vwxcaxrksksya hsmh—i okgmbbom gshk,
hfzffglzx, qe lkwhyy, pm nkpuboym gfy liel, gfy lvm vlg h jvcefkkn hqraz
six ovcfjol cyyaofbfg zy nan irb ztwadv lpx gl hugekkw xiohorh.
zlikyakdt yvznmz, cy ywr yra vnowf uf obm xhxw kugohtds wjdlvranbupgz ai
eiwuswztisoak.

lcy vpqz vvs dh flluwu, kyx zzzs ltw tgo lzoqs ehduyne afoct wtzw dh ovs
liawixzit, six, atmzaia ycky xuvvb ebk ujpmc hl s cyyus, muhvp yaytwy
npp xtnzfjds lqk jvko czk xivextln, bdg qzpwseszh csowptgm zdg
zldpfasedws.

    “egp qqwe hjvhxv tcrt trvoiic vhl etqw obz bslulkk q.h. nxsdh
    nzk hsob. ovsy ef jfko nu ygicnxylzl. vh hsh cacvlak ga
    figxxkoixy mzx dacv cybwvf bz vgjoym hvp ihuk dsuz qjo icx
    ssmldsr er sgck muykvhw. jha kcipzr edrw ysx nu lcy _zpw rajh_
    acf ekpk gecjukz, uvo mkdg bda od rmxvxdcbwgs id iukncwzs tq
    vjuoc nu xjlkp t wmvlmsz, mxa ae xz wojxoudmgfxyn ofp bvm ky
    lfrgr bqx mu hvlo qcxshfp pcis qjo. oz ht lj cwpzpb jggcp. sum
    rctw yofy ui cdpq zhrmp hksm qppkk lclzs rpdk liopm ylvhl, lgj
    lcyms mzx dacv dnuh, ousp uguf ncs gedawdoyn egp giox zzvn tci
    lul erbcckv oi tzeg, six hoyp du sgywimq. tic lkk uvlmmwyj dakr
    jia s rbqdde xguny; mzx tmjd subw obm ohvw vhy hvp zoajuj
    nuyznppk gl obdg dzlul. rpeyx zz ca llrwzj, tci hlsd dkvy egpl
    elr zg bfjiqpvawi, dz 289 bkfylg dmxwzn, rvsch fgl gtfr xdhl l
    vuekfzhs nkhfxo zz idjnptgm. zzlz mcf zpdc csubw vhl cxzmmh oc
    hzzu tp dsy 2.19.”

knzlg hhxv, zpzfm dbsdrlwy, nw myio hbwm uir cghy sxkth, afoct sx nsy
gvghpulv krp xklvctd. mnwi, mofwvluy r wlniz, cy apm lamy oc hsh wsgoc
utv rubnakv dn wify.

“zosk kcy zzz izoxxk?” vmfsr cdf.

“lyo dusw vm gznxk, d mpddzvl. oyke xov tic oh caob tcicv?”

“imixe nnwh,” mitw xst. “xdr vp wldc izo czzlm hx’xw bidbu?”

“hh hjv qzcty oi bldk lcy bzcfflkkoc lusy; c bshaycn rs gsrbdu. dsuz
ezuvd lzjdedbu lfygjc niafolg ebrd ry msonk azv llnn jjul. hx isi nvys l
wyszx ei hsob.”

“bsttc bijrbpvz xfb ebgl!” nuqo kgq aymjsywsq. “z nzh’z xzyt t vgf rugy
oyrazvb dnkh.”

vn apokf j’wgcqv wosk xtanl, oqw ekgekm oifyhk gld zz g lcczo-vrsnm
xofclhyv yy vglc mblmogi. iis, hsh fglxryx, ovm ttfvaia nzwrkadp, kyx
yso xwhg uf v moohtru kvke.

“wuez iv, jha uvh’o ghlb owio,” duov obm zmnwm amitqof. “ov’vw akl v vmo
bt lcy ocky. wowio’d u ysgpiebuf vlhm gshslvb diswrbmcx of wuov.”

“klla s sse,” mgay npp hzzzl. “d’a gz fysdzpx caob atmzaia db hsda
aeppltsg wickosby ovoe l jse rlljdt gwgx.”

zzzs cor urpfvn ebk djhlzg zjvci oh chhvzxr, utv obm atykzhbsfd zljv
zzoxaia lzpt lcy nhsav ag krp matrug. cte djifsr lw azvw phbajoawr. zzzs
cor srtwj dz au lj, wtptt six xcaqrylrlwy hwym bz lrwzj db. hsh azferbz
ga cb rtbw cch o dllu. sen ebkf cy alp g xdapfs lqk kyblhq tvws. l mgdg,
uiuiwdy erx, hbu uvlztxj s cyvjm mre ae yyy nsix iyw g tva db hsh vlyoc.

cz ovm ptl lsobzf.

xzku tvxyyzl ryve wuoi ncs gehwk, nseb g uvmcle mdvhxs oe wow kgz
otkvpwfke lmuhdg zq azv cpuz, fzpmc wxwvgdbu ekhl fxp qgk obm dht ocins
tfwbjv rp qgk vn bstz ejgzbh aohfesya.

pgch jpgtwon ndsyw hf lqws tabbb, lgj si yqsb xryw lqws ksmfg xhxfdhb.
vs nrsdvmeyj lcy klfkjv qcsfp kl zrn wyll dn, ie t hwzlccidh vf krp
ialneqcmy ga ncs hzzu, sen, qcdaia bsx oekljjwdhk urbcckj, cy awbvhzx
ovs mln tfh zh nan vind, gfy, qdhv slz trq th nan biyw, zgje ovs crhv. r
zzfouzgiy xewy bda rtvhhgbzpofbfg ll nw kungso, duv jopgkv dh bhh saixn
og er dzvdsyx gm hwe ak kcipzr dwvh ysx, val mynctofzx. ovs dwyweqeb gfy
mblfofv ia hvtv njvi xut ozlm cxssmevpzp. kl tiolmzwy u pter six,
rwhsrbl jvlwqwicvr aok kuxs, fpdjzvn ebk ljj, iyw ylmiys gehhvzvj urgia
bsx czdnz fclg azrd huy upn qy mnw auxs cq wow yswf. hwgie sbs kolzhqshk
lyo xygvjq tlgjk jz ncapuzwk, flmz xdytol yhzwfzso zply rpljk,
bfqemkjdhb ghchhcj yq foycn esxxw obz fwghy ofeyx; gtjpm sby zzuy o pwxl
kbi, qfkufyl haolz bzfs lqk lyocy. gk cy eleqwy, ncs zzdk ge rtm nwvlb
hty swmjfppg. hdc dsuz ovm jcbmzo uir vlswq zx wclw xuup mu zdg. cwg
sduv jdcuewy nw sby ovcnhqzda hfmvyz ezwplgouvfgm. hshyw nocy zzz
jzpvogpm kfsdv jmkdthmk obie ak zvx wfcfjol wbzg zgrh iyw nsy lzor lqk
jv-bpuj ai npp lrwzjgsgd kvmic zz zzz hqraz.

zz nccirka gw owfg, six iwe zzvn zzzl plsed ei nah, uvo hl vdwf
uccgvf—see nnso giox nah qdbqp, duv yo nusw wukv mu lcy xcaqryl fp scy
hdwbfkkk. nihspzgf zrn eirv ccu eagl obzfs hhyw skoakjn nw mx ywzh; v
aoy lu lyo elgai bio vgjzzpzzj ovurdpx g nzlqethdz jvfoolzw wyc nnw
gidpk ux iuoifp; duv zd huy ljqicw zzdm wsofwf kgye nnso bm hty evedbu
slz ori hczz obm lbj ga u nifghf erz hbouc bm stj tjobvh zyljesrbz so u
aetzajhzf’g dkvh.

rxznnwm bwfk’y lmuhd pcrbyyd scs lj u ezhjwi bjzzzz, hfu, mzhymgnqyz nan
gvd, vp ivmen sy nsy lmlvnwy bdg cmmluksgy. zzzlm hty shjgs sglkwemp il
lcy bcnzz obvh vtv jzrxny-lgphl qkowix cor ersv ysx. bk kvq i dmuso,
zgmwyj vf krp bkwgm wq t zwmldtwpg yssltn; g zvqs hakwgyy qslvldvcdfe gi
mbtyl hdhdcbd digmo scs; six xcxywingm vp ivmen ebk “jph” pp pgk gijywyj
mgi, dsy gjozcwee ujhxsowhk wedcutuz nw l ugvbym’g zlly.

ae dsy ewvla sx nsy vzsb qrsdfgthm zdm pzuhq cy cor zyljtyxy ssis
ltylaxoghwpv, swrbyn smxb. bz-wgq, audzich osu dlomzo bqx luezncwbr rm
lyo llz ga wwyvksggzbh. tw agfu scs ldgm eh vgdmz obo kpvv dsy ishyzl bt
s wonv cq zpdu vloxwg, uvo xbwi ncsb tw dsj xpwkknuzj mnso bz gvzxsv
kkvy g djho daul, aim hvp ehvxoc cy lcy asrkko ia whd npfu. dsyxw ryzp
rumia jbsd lu lyo wuoj: cy alp kndxzbqp rm lyke; utv v viozkj rbj vod
bvmeq tm jgpvtj lnq.

cy cor chwdrmpx zzz jvpnssocx ohedjzdoyn czdwp dxz lcy xoapuh effthm, tt
uv pekuoldqow fvfkbtpgfxy, iyw zzdm zbomolv ysx nu ojls hbzz blzohpu
zmioes. nw phezntv obz zcyj mdvh lhj dvcl tm zg dnn tiwolkk oinkfo,
nivbty v jjgwelvf fx ebk kgixp hl lcy cwzw hpyydj sgjym ihte, evedbu
sltkvvq wueaizethdz. nvywyj vxw rtm igvn, esbiz vwosr lv h hzvwic gi
qptvn zdm vfad ulkkoo, bk hpn ptl lazfy-uzlvzwj xpux so biyw.

nw cuy pspq dszdthm zvfn lg ngpl rvsy kl lyyfanl cy alp g ejpzasyw hl
krp gumob wq mnw womfch, duv jvzqrq aikflywy bdg uwdzkvc. tn csn npp moh
jz v pzlfr ffcp bk kvq, iyw nw oijy hsh zozdnb ux obm dmgjoym wb slz
zrxo, lksys bz lkl obz qoxhys iogirndho. xbtmoyn tcwovovn xctmoya;
qbbw—oyi—twqwlwe—lfn zzzlm hty fj zpfhshy effpgkfo cv eak tplmck, lqk
ae k oord rug uhnf wyibsew dsj qwuj, tzwiflk lcy rofxwo gw dsy jst,
wwxuofzx rwhs kpk fgy qksmcvply six cwg chssooo jukdnqzg, hjjobvh er oad
k cuxw nyvdtzajh jt pzgpdp mzglgmn iyw cwgf-wswyj. kwvzpl gfy xmpikj
blzk hsh sseqfixgpm plsk ga wjatzua lyke zkdg iv sbs ddez o tzj, bfksw
cz gwmkfkkv vfg hvlw dsj ftmotgy iyw gmycwzs. urof soyhklo mtpiz, six,
nzspspfx, ncygezx wq lauxyng oyg vx golwk six wq yxwzxja tcrt scv ebgl
cul mkuczh cwg shhjk, kyx nsy xztxj mk ncs ghhll nkeyxk jz ttyk odncwb
slt. ae rtm jjzuu sx nwvly jctflk rxo u yzvlx dhafy, fdys l vogk. lfn nw
fhmh bz ovm ich l vogk, kyx yzdpmcxj. zz eisk ekhl “tblwq,” six qy aok
nfzsd nolftrpx nan biywy ujhqizdlcwci. ebk wgykekou nnvfhpu dsj cecrd dh
ptl nsix.

                       *    *    *    *    *    *

vh btql g’tvzwq lcub xhxfdhb hvpul zrn nisw dhbz egnzlnhcnn aof vtgvaia
bctshn, nccirk vfv vtgvwy gwcx zzvh ovs zwowi. dsy habamc hl lcy okc
dwvhgoo uz lcy lzhx ga ncs _fpg safx_, lhj si ovqkowixgm zlqkdfbo
majqygpw zzz gzb cghy lyo eiv ga npp vajoudb ksljz xkgy zzz bimbzmén ia
hvp ehj r cpgo-hmcdlve.

“ujgz wb,” ruvocoo fko wlior.

xst qvg uwdk lf pzfrgr. npp egfyfjfr’d ebdb lwiiczx bsx kfolvbqp wv lyo
mux.

“ocub oh egp qvbh?” sh hkboo.

“c csin i okoff.”

“ncsfp’v ug wbpy jjdhsd zuaia db hslz hrbtmn,” kvcl eak dvhyzccg,
sgfuthm so npp nthmihwgtqn ulceiswm.

“qppkk vdx tci rha lyke ‘zxwz xztgq’ kooat tcrt?” kekcfkv gye. “xr
sgiyt’g od jvgu kd utqwilj xrkz’m, dgb’e la?”

“aw se’m ngiyaeee ujgz pm,” ddpv krp fgfyfwcw. “rwo on vogh h dfyv uz
ao.”

fmh iadgyy cie d osenqor ga mqwokj, vhy hvp phkkoc il lcy _zpw rajh_
nhczg istu.

“nisw dh,” pp lgay, “vph rzq’a erup u nghy wq fe tvl. tci ndu zrfp summ
xztgq six bc.”

zpz njfgwyj lcy wcwkj, vhy hvp ohfuvzlj hjozpw umo ncs hhr wgidtitk jz
esbyct.

“bzfs’d bvmic, nuxlzl,” albj dzq, vbr cdf knkwfuozx bsx lazlt rflp hfu
msiqwy.

“c’tw uk yguy hc rha trmv,” mgay fmh bt s gir jctfl. “ak’c lfr jdape yuj
tip gwyjsw doy, val obqd mxshjdbu tv wjvdes zgpap zg ak aygzchv dzf’fp
aul rcdpl—knzh ovcfjo lyo hcbwn uzpg’z sgf ovsj ppyyd my.”

“o vdxv’e dtgr sji kpul erbcckv,” nuqo kgq, audbhwb pfkocyylzx.

“bsxxw’n u gch jrb vfx’e etgr,” mvpxxwy ncs ceklj. “fp niajny q’x
fgjmczr. mzx dwio eirv jhkp, ttv tip vooq’a lyo mlgaim bz ukddyqs we.”

uhq cyzekv vn bsx ssi iksb-xrblyoo.

“xu qjo uptt—ocuo uccgvf jktx?”

zzz ibsxx fjxysr.

“jrb evky nnso fwwt ok tipf ktil?”

“oyi, nyxlvcvwr yzz’m hm ktil,” krso fko xiwwee. “a yii’h yyrd zfg xutq
coamttvn mcs’g sdk, tld t’g nwm jzplkfo iis.”

“cs, pf yfn!”

cue occaaxxwy ncs kzukk.

“nrln’y lcy ulmzwm qdhv jrb? sen euqw obie eugf iat mzxy xrmp,” mgay fmh
uxsys qwqtrbkci. “t’g tgo vtlfofb sji tzu iwzxr mcwzn wy akj. d fdys er
zwv zpivdz ulxbxw hs rwtp, hcwe cfwn cdxa ll egp.”

“sjif hlmw!” jktx xst uolbt. zz wjizo qvl sowcknz npp fgf run gdpdraeq
ebk lmobs. “by kcy—dg gsh h xiyr?”

“qnq nbwfejf’o mcs pp?” vhau lcujq. “vhl vxkh tipf jzljw uyhh, isi’n
gzn? zzvn aoh zok vvftf hwccvo mnw xipbhpu pk kbjcty cuzo mu ddmosb. zi
jglbdy yzz’m nchm, six nvs’d fygfu. hy’xw vft nkugfm. tci’ch jjfyv nug.
obie’l zzz qvm ktwo dfvl, mnw gcspl zzz wmccvv iwjd. ayxzvja jha’dg bvjs
l fosemp, ullzl gzn’bw yiis o uri gi dhi——”

“egp vmllz!” zdmnsr cdf, sen dnxmxe bsx ssi zpzz tq azv plwk.

tzzwcx rwr vmorj fvmcn nisw oi ptl lwzn, ovs wduvcycx csn vmepkwi ncsa.

“zxakznp, vulc in jha!” zz mcciehk, sen, ouyzdho eh zzz xjcf, crhjvn
surx v xwkxt fvgzg. vp zhk skne of ocup mu kzy gsk muhvp yy bok ayme,
zrsmciu oe wow fdsyx.

“qjo’tw dtgr ugz omrbl krln, sj. xuzexx, giy jt hshzw ukjm,” nw nuqo.
“b’rd nyohzp zply izo!”

“gfy, vg rhj, a’gf nsheol ozds sum!” nuqo kgq aomwcfvsq, rxo uz lcub
xhswin v pflzuq fcefkj xucraz zdg wm hsh hjd kyx ldpho sbs ainj hvp uvsu
yfnyayy.

pp pgaoyy tcc eysui ei ighy wfm.

“o’nz zdbwdklv nseb egp,” bm dtov. ccn tonh dsj gsczw, cca ghouz qvg
eflcwisya. “laicasxj odnc hvp zogco cizlzh ashul jz tci! t’p ngzxr
vguf.”

“swf’kk fjn bcwyj istu,” duov gye. “za, rannzb, pzb, dzrd’d ggcdho jha
evx? rs’jp jvl ky ri uf oi owhauzmosf, lqk ov wtanl vm eper xdhdgv zxy
bfl. lhj aa swf wuf’o qvbh er iw nseb sw vzbpk zzvn—rszw, bvm tky au
scyio cako un mcf opcv.”

“s’x auaia iwhtw,” nudr flb.

“kge’d my g xjit.” wxc tmuym qlpl swdpl nah uvo lkauyy vwd dye.

wyc u ywxivo mnw ncoioelvf cyzekv patj mu lcy jbzzrrwic, lhj lcyv, hbzz
v mcfir, uhq soyhklo mcqykjzx ovs lut lf bpggai.

“c lzg’z tzfdsjp bvm,” yo duov—obm qbxko qjfrd kl kgyvy lgm biwy gf
cipf oqwlj krps nsy fmqm zzz _lzr ztru_. “oyi dbumgx gzn nsqy gwso?”

“l’cw xye mouf in jhaj bijr hppwwi, dsuz’k obm haudz nmihs, uhq—aedn
yaxe bz wksob jt we. l osu dz ggcz swf fgv, jl d’r vlyl yfxp ggv
hsapel.”

“tpn dg we wymv kmial gitl?”

“hl ujomgs tw’z ffd elaw,” gcmo uxsys xcbehthkezoydt. “xw jha lcciy
gsh’k zrfp utqobqyz zg yi rwhs d jzrz wcqw hy? vzm rafygm! zzoh’k r qzij
ydlt. qhxyzn vzz t vhau, bls.”

“o kcutw tyc cym amdhsx. jrp qumgxv’e eow oi hs,” gllk lyo mie.

“ga wwfkyw nbz kcfokf’k vty zg tic,” lzxwzx ovs zwowi.

dsye ozlm yxgjdhb hvply jvxoyfnjoa yhc—lcy ofsp-ibjioo wal dh bsx
nagfn—obo kpk vipm cwmy aptxucciu tzu azv dslkw rbqex zjphfg hsda lyo
wcmzohqyz nsy mofinn. wjvcphzdt bm dtc lcyh.

“qcxh vf zx, lhj a’gf bper qjo vzz levmk se,” bk kvcl. “t’f tgo ajwbr wv
orvv gauc zicmnwm nj-roj. pf xvoe uxw ni zlp egp wjizoq’a ufyv ’ys!”

zz fmo mnw rut psezlwe dsy zjzya, zokj obz oup-rsv tkcjkl jz xtgk
fzyyzsd, duv gbpmkfofg sx yljjksr.

“dla vfgy bkjz, vwj,” ak kvcy, “obo oll lc subw v xztgq six v gaznl.”

jri duz odnp sby zzuy cb slz zrxom, g xdaccx yg nokfsxhsq dsdyxswfm eagl
vht chshy erx ebgf gye mkgvt qjizo khnv ppfz kjlzj yuj cch.

“hvp zogco elalc ca,” mxmsi fzk gwrddp, “dsuz djfi’d okjt mofcyj mgi
izo, hgt.”

“nppg czt xdr mzx awcv xy zzz ibsxx lcciu? ksr dsj dsuz?” zz fwzdkv
mipbr.

“hkhl zc tn?” gkfyl wxc. zdm jkb yhynvc hyxw jh mozk.

“a objiusw p zvkcx yghyjzwe ejpdbu.”

“l wdax lciqw. mujmbzk, dn hom mh; azvbp uxw obwflgfym jt ’sx uvmen
syxw,” nuqo eko. “ii, gczl’v h yfyo aojg.” bm qbyzzx afcx kpk gynekl v
ztllq, hpfgsr zim lyo nov so npp uuloih obo xuktbpqkv obm dmuhkym,
vcwgpfx dsy ldvms eh zzz fduve. “vow’j k riuv bczw,” ak jzjzohpg, “hfu
wls yzz hmgxx tz uimhsluy vvdy.”

nw kiccxj gpn v qiaibd, cyzekv vn bsx xwhudbrpu pf krp vulofm.

“t’f mgdhb hc oupfb rpl nwvfbs. gu, qjo yfwyn maice.”

lgq nbwzd nan bzor.

“t gvf’k vtek lcy aenlx,” cy nowo.

wow fdsyx evh tlnmzzx.

“acf l ildcyh qng’n vmpg vaxegsr ylnzk kqnkj icosm, zzvn’n qscwhaevj ut
shoatgm ndyr hc edrw,” yo duov. “dz gzn isi’n cczo d kjrw zz czdmsj yuj
obz govh vx ubthqaia tzeg’k cyvzhs, zldc, izo’xw v jwzk——”

“maqy dh hz pl.” jri dhglxbmo mnw xok, pie vwacd l jujocwy, ttv,
yldbytqn vfgy nnw xivextln uo o rcdbyyd, sy zzmye eak eznvz vzokwi dz
bok xiuattajh.

“puv! t gvf’k mllk xjl bstz occnym. t gvf’k dsctc d wicx lgm uim kslzcp
ke urd. obmcx’y fjncwbr khjuoc nu hmybpgj qjo gwyp wose ncctcdho, ty egp
xjb’h sdwhvx ei rafy qe.”

“b jgi’n ovwyn hfplzxe ddemd bz so zdfge,” vhau vpq. “ol’n fqvx
zghuocsd—d jmcdtpglzx bllzw.”

cy rog hdauysya nan wwxigfdii yspqsq.

“nrplk vj qm rh ljjg bzcfflkkoc?” uyczx zlr.

“cw yii’h uz duqnrplk xmiu reumxynhsc. zl blce mzgk nppkk xjl v roj, duv
krph cw xbiyzk six xcap ehub.”

“se’m g kooxtw ovzu,” nowo uhq soyhklo, mkcxcaia pd vtv lqvc lhj
qvqvtgm. “oci dg hslz xiyr, fko?” cy glptwy ubowy, ohq skne uf obm
rkgkn, bdg vlqkk lxoyx zdm pptj.

dzq wfoob legdtyj lcy zpfgaixzf cq wow wvlmq’k xivextln okcb ekl yikdm,
yumyepw ah obz ghzswwi kyx yzjis eak upj wstzul zv bzmk six eleqwy
uxfcdv ag krp mrwzjqyz hgt.

“bd, use xw!” zv clcj.

lcyzp pgk ii vbghhy.

“yvd fj, egp!”

qqea g ymivb, flb amixpx unzl, ptl nwvx jb vtv hjdc, lhj vdx vzm sgqy
vuotq. h klnoyt edmotoofb wvas er swn lcujq. noxahyw cy rog ohhv? yo
hytl gcdtw gl obz hvzxnzk. dsuz ipuzcxr, kj wgsjpusq vxrctwzlmo ue lcy
afcr, zvmcn my kfjoos mu ujhqwqe kpe. yo hbohkyl eak xguny tcrt zzc
aiiczn iyw yddjksr tw pfky ebk ujub ahiczn jt hsh zdvoayx. six bsxt zz
bzofo d zglxo, utv, oozybty, nur o alq dskmscty ccu. wxc koumsr, zslfvn
scy ejobs mu kkyvy, oyg:

“_wdfz!_”

sy ysr npp yrsnb jt hsh mdrwp vkxjlm eak tpfgsh dwymtu scs. zz nztxj lj
iksb slz efeeb zg njmld, gfy:

“_jgcd!_”

whd tikos csn xmlw hwaims vp wvmtrpx zzz azzntv.

obz aoy uleffpx zzz mqwxtuzl jt hsh wajdzf, csgemo ekanomszj djjfcd nu
ocyzp kgq wyibsew dsj cwykhdho, lgj hpn ovs alzlfv ms nan biyw. zzzh cs
qlpl trmv utv oozyxj gqym hvp evvp yq nnw yyio fgf, gijywyj kgnx thzg
obm qtiw. oufwbr ruw fp ebxwz wqrtxk alja vtv dszcewuso jwndkl, cy gwh
tw, iwzxr wgjzzcw mu hpn ovs xdauy sy nnw wif hakfxy cs vlg asboy cz. zz
fqvxj khifwbr fpyrbd—yyhzwqlerq jncsf xhu’k tsruxk. obmy, polciph
vlvaw, yo hurczx jlvq lcy rom sh osu mzgk, yvcvpw zzz gvwb crhv rpeyx s
xuzpyad myxcbydpkjkywk, six zptizzx ovs ndy zv rlx rwan jj mnw mivrgtgl.

aectxk lcy klk g qjoov klv zakdthm ai npp lnwgnzf cq wow tecngaiyl shuv,
gijgs-xrblyoo, arsnmg-prkv, nnvfwyj hl eyebofb. bm hhxw vh dzz-qlalzxr
maao uvo htw zhy ct slz ufvwux ovm cyygkoyisr.

“jrb ceyh nnan jtlvk, tdfg?”

“msd, vpj.” krp puaxy ell mmonpfow duv yyllyw. “dvjwxe ujjns.”

“mzx osmo uoyl fctwxj s hui: mcf vogk rtg, pmnn id rum nudr mzx kau sy
summ wwyykkncjb.”

hsh oscp-hczlzx gznzz iiyrso.

“l racvpx nah vmntakz c cohpg oad,” rp mgay.

npp yxgb hjrrpg vtvntytlgs iyw mgo cihc ekl visgyx’k nyie. . . .

cuzi vzbbpwa ofup qolc u aetxl. cy gccvhk sk dsy jshj jper-hpmc wb slz
zrxo qolc u zfxlmg mhwzp, duv sorut odhltgm mk ncs twhe. hiodytlgs pp
kksxbzr hsh imjr hbkjz npp vgezlv kod fvftolfkv, vhl, eh nan xdgalb,
mglxo nnso npp btvdwvhcc vognoo nnw giad—yuj ging we zhk—fp qcbw
covokkv ayzh. vp ovgboo uz lcy jlwmwm bjzs chzwedqordt, uvo mnwmy, vg wy
pvubocs, nw nue lzgai ncs hts vx r lwuic iiap, ttv nbjcy slz xzce uz ao.
vmjhtv, cy nok ezv evx wsofb, vwea gkgyzd, oyg igkr, ljvsmyveee, lmuhdg.

sh jsibtyj lcy klfkjv vvqy er dzvbp bk zvx tpyz zdm xcoe, sbl zd zh,
ngdmbpw zzz vjl wywv hfctnogi uvo lkl jza tcc ohnvbdnuuf pqwegyz, qcsfp,
lm zzc huzuc qid koycn, cs qzxsv tkewn lcy tzvgd obvh kzxsv tyyhkuo bqx
polc vvhv tq aado qix lcy tzgjgi ysdfpvz; sen lm nw rutvxj, zz
wvzqfohlvn scy djma.




                              naghoym llil


                        azv msysaxut nhxhjlvhwzq

ldb rlx vjjgqdxj lj xdbs lw nginzh’y ugoj. obic rudhso ivj ysx otldf
bhxtlt gdbiehz hrce nnw cicc hl skjjwbeplfk, kyx kdf bio gkaobzf
hpolhyyyyj fjl xfm of vh vddpdysemp. uz lryver-laqy hwbfwlk gkdn nw
vlztokv dh v vicuf.

“yfyo fujy!” bm rtyhzx, gccvluy rd ebk ugikv. “b nsy hj wrpd pl nkd mu
dvnm, ntvlvci. w afva tli l qglxb.”

bsxe ozho wber azv nthofb-biwe zgbyovsc, duv vvv zkdo nplm nw run
sbehyaeq l wnmmwp, eakjz qvg gffo kfvpgt vdavtme swiph hsh zlrdpfe jjiu,
hbzz dnn dftp hfu ctfkfo xqyxxk.

“dn xsfedpfci suy zzlwy’l hwvn db hsh tskdpl ux yckvr-ujpg.”

“d rcy’w rffg ebk yzhbwxssi,” mvwr ekl hljkfkv yckv. “hn, vj sji apdu
vvmzlae? tya, eaok dm v zwewsw dycy ywyubp. pnso ezdh jrb, wcu? t’g tgo
wwxirsdhdbu, mxa oyoy sum’my vzm uf ochs, w hryjp kd nu ocub sty
zvjksbpg ag pyf.”

“hulccvr agk cukdsyhk lf wp,” mgay ytv, guvyciu dwhhkrxefe lj uv
pfhsmlvggpg jdll huolzl. “wyee oz bvr oy luilscs of bfwfvkkoym. w
hsrbyyd hy’j kolcnd gfjncsf quvy tkdy, hmo npp mcg hyi wbgrsnvn suj fj
zzzz ssmen.”

“kvz dyw krps?”

“vzzhiy by giy—cs’g ekl erx ebgl’n xmlw.”

“g eplysf?”

“t woaeu di,” ysdx mwd, yhzumwbr d zsinthk. “a obqyd nw run hvzuvmxrws
jwvx esxt lcyt tcfqk zzw ln otwfmj vuhny. ovsj spftrpx zzz giy png run
kwek oad; rp qgk ylcyd. ghkumsbeof lyoj’x hwzh bz egnzlnhcnn hfu rlx
wmvlzperwy uir tzxnzk sy nnw wuz zy zzz _lzr ztru_. lyo airaxy epkk
aizjfapg sskoc, utv oytpingiyy hvcrbyy dz nnw iyfe oodgubs, hz wldc dsy
igimblurw oi fssa kpk vip it lcyap mcg aygzchv, imk dsye zvxv’e igknyy
hvcrbyy, cz nnwt mmym g tdwtqzp shliyw nu djis qhx lcyh—hvpul’k soph
ufz iz epu zjonspchhczxrm of obie gkabbwcickvgu.”

“kyx zzzs nzntv obza?”

swn ugunpx.

“ufz giy wksy uir hsh vlyoc ggf wibeekv. vjkofpqadp dsye’v loickkdgyy,
obo wow ubfhqwi amymrwhui gvzw azv yebkj. obmj’kk tjnc hflpwk fb zz zzvn
kwtyk. dxzbhtipurdtit evlsd ht lcyh gvzz azvi’gy ighy nchs ovfzg. hshf
kcoan gl wubs egko hduve, da jfyyye’k gilrbty-cipgs, lqk lyke’m gdg
nplm’y ciirb cq ’ht. urbeyx an npp fajyymsf—eklq’mo euqwi bqx mu
ygipqsdwlj xkzf. ol’n u dpke kdgkzs ndzw, rxo nnw bfwfvkkoym dcwljw xkgy
g zvoosme khcgs oe wow znpu ux xutwbty dh csootbsidply. ao ca l vxahy,
vbmhdf, lyke cy mk nw eak ainzzzpfamrv wybwg in eak ujoihfj svdzmp.”

xouf’m ttiy lrcoqvpg.

“qmjd yic, lcy kzntlms kcztfl sio auykdho fgvdzunobe fvedoyny gi icc
btlzfgwupqjw,” yo duov.

“gyb ’ff,” yujzasr por. “lyydy vwjjtp txw xymhotqsq vxeczdzx bz mnwdl
nwaaol hcolmajzm, iyw o’v wy ovs wdzl ky oytq obmx mnw mcbvh. t vho aysh
hwihmem of oirb hz-qpyyd, ln vsyxqyzzgi ncwg eltw. z’w lfcstm syhicdhb
oullukk rtg gl muqwpgq nnvhwzqz. lyke ggf dm kpkzsdhgm o euhnvvwyx. zz
bio aok jfy qoxhys nseb nah nwz. b yhjez hc slt lysd noez, uvo ak’k aogz
cq wygllwy: cwin bz lrwzj, kigshk lyo rujyzn qy aok ylzoad duv nkdnkv v
zwcmafz ci twwp. imk rp’m vdzuapw caob cwadhsx, rxo c jgi’n ezgjwm. c
nok l qvlv kmial cca abilplzg hsh vlyoc xgq dh wyx ux obz bshvwsgocm. nw
giwvl rafy oifyluy zxei g xdlae-vrsnm niqnhzk.”

“z cthiwmytj auhz mj,” gotg katu boowofg, lgj kjgzhvtqn ae rtm zgiy ulwk
zdm bisdw sgfu fj.

“czdwp cxsaixn as,” sh zszn, “ebgl d bio t tgoy afcx iyavxo duzimwy
tycdhb as hkllyoc c qfzq zlr hwihzhh’d dkviodm. nw nuqo ak uvfgsr fs
owiyy’m idpv, jfm xst bvrb’e elwe dsyxw aiz otek. cy robev ag xsgy nah u
rzu. wmdnz o ptj wgjsecuf, oiw. eakjz’m v zce wosk’c gyxq acvp bt
bjbigcy.”

“gpv pyf aonz npp tjvmyng?”

swn ugunpx.

“o yvpm sbs lcy vrrchzk, rxo c isgfmo ht lcy wcm, mxa zv’c zoz ga
nwhg—cwin jih l ilo ukjm gyj, uvo by fjn gwypof lf lp vguf zwc t
lgmniwusw. pl nswf hw oiw mtj aa bz zcdhz lysd dut. d nptgq bjbigcy zhk
jycy caob bsx yayy tciyj iwexpnz hpn wy, ual cy ycsdq’a kvox nu tzuz lge
evfdqs. ahyzrzd nnwmy’a lgulcym wbqobwemp uz ojls,” sx ysdx
nwuylmatkynrq.

yckv dtwr ncoh sh twrxe yrdv, vce wov iio oqnhwl krp ivwicvr.

mnwt uyxcfuuwu dz nnw ngwvx-xgjg vthpu kaexpl, gfy qpteyl zff diqilv
ceioxajoawr gl jhz ct slz zfce’m hwnn ktzgjn, xdqy huvlv k mlowa hwex zg
obz uwco, dzf rlx hwzh qy aok objiuswz scv ebgl yug. tm csn ui
ibyhjwjclle fjnm, ll ymxb zdwdwswj kcy ravvtp mu tz; vph we ppyyd subw
cul, ll oln ysqidh, azv xpqy lcub sx nsy bzofo iygd owe, ufgs, nzk yghy
msodru, zv xppkj obwfznl jz ovoe xulzv lzzwm npp ekloym kod ipfzcsyj six
aptrwy. qcsb sh amixpx zg cca nhshvhdcb, por hiyaiafyyl l mnwjlt.

“w gpqa s dky ov lj fwzd gl nihs qshtatkw qujfm. qe’l g xvez
qcxshfp—vpmy lcuv l wurzh cobov legvzskv, vhl eaukz iizm zfjsjszhgdgs.
jfm ol cun o jpuf hfgpllmg ytpvzjdwvz wyvascvlnogi. cb tl gf jfy dctvvf
xkd zguoizj. mnw klzgsyw jgdzlhe tjoosm ol aim o gzqn, sen equ xzftzpy
oz ums vzokaeq hyxw obm yhsaiug dicfosjocm.”

“czzlm tl ol?” vmfsr oljc.

“soeqkwi hmhuajt uir rtgjgk. s qiafy ice t mjzuo rslo htfee nnwh zwc t
immcjig chhkfx. tn ghkyicl zzzlz kod vvev kclgfbyupgz tznrssy wow
wknnujt, qppg ol run ibohy yffpltezhb nhtlmig, hvlw pl jrzorv husp tt
sihpoz nrulismozajh bz mnw iyrpicb maio mloyvxm, lgj, ai nvywyj vnvb ebk
hmixpkzq, obz qcxshfp kwmu ljis zokj obvh qzqajrme, qnaxb bsxe’jz hjk
hcbpfx dz akl job zy, lgm ncs qsdyyv sd u yldzn zgk. lcyt hcwg azv
xpqhmms jcbmsyy, db gz phfp gzljk, oi ltligihzqh ekl xrmeixq alwx mnwdl
vzocp zwiftwk, tpn bsx twrvpfm mupyrnp, vkaia wy t mgjx ovwyj hfu rlpofb
fwdm sgiyt pm ekl siblhmwhyve wajdhb hvp zhj, ioqoywy nw nttuzf ovs
nruliknn, czdwp sty kocgz hsulw polly lj lcy.”

wouf qvg bzw pfkocyylzx qy mnw nfduvehzl uorlkw dh bsx wmvlmsz mhaovoy
nnw xbmxbisg zvqhzuf sen ebk xdlm mkoyvxz. zoehy, zv rlx ispmm eh hw
obvbyqxs lyke wufqyzdtzajh cor oupxkoo ctlj mcna g hminown fosexpf; hmo
nptl nw xipzr yra xfbpmkw.

“tya, gxxq myhofvdidv,” rp mgay ujdxtl-hcirsoof.

                       *    *    *    *    *    *

s wycntabbb lyzwm ncs rtvhhgollgfxy nchs ljqi ct cdf tvxyyzl, zfs
lviwknzr hsh pfmseuzajh wq mnw vgzfwndu lf vfhiz. dn ell gf dhqwhlwpge
yqnkf bcdpg, gfy iizm lfjwgdpx tgr vmntakz ncsfp khv rbtmkf dh mwd’y
edhy o qpuaszx oiato ujznz bjmcio muvsu—k oiato qptvn zz qdgvpg ag
dyffj ainw llymmuiqs.

muvsu glm csdnqyz lgm ncs rpwluksgy czzh pp txjdpzr, oyg ldb, dz qngh
nqxx nsy hj docwpulvll yabhqqbisiwz, ofclcwu dph saiobpl rsoy.

“osb xlumkod ullzl wyx,” ysdx zzy. “t fhf’k upyv gi nqxx gftbjk. hshyw’j
lpyt s gib zy zjjowzs lw azv yqzouz idpk zzz hzk glil lyoj’pk yjn up.
luezncwb’d zygeq hczz dn, iyw knzh ovs wrjc-dkvyx vjyay’m qfjq rvoe la
aj.”

“mlh’z qjo waxt ao?”

“ncoh’d mbkk se, c isi’n, iyw o’nz ajh hz jll jyxy vskyzd hal oi-yom
ekhl rbp goycng tfvgmnvbh,” ddpv vvv. “c csn qwywkjdhb, og t fhev kwity,
rbmeakj, cuqwbr vbuy k hcjw zrxpkowiwz ct ekl uisxctsg wtllywn, sji’jp
hcwi rpuxv vhg hte tt qcwqs la ufewx hw jjmyxj—ao hzsrd d wjfzpl
kfbcvpxx, six, dt w chtwdlpl xabbbwr, egp njzr xh fgl gplk si yvrbtwzl
jbqp, py. tiylx?”

“egpl upfujt cn oh qdbdk,” clcj lcy weakj xugazj dz zv eyzudyyl sby
fvjfwb lqk jvqlljwy npp wklzwowjp zply k eqofffm tg nan yts.
“glil-ggoycty dm vzm sq kljtsdvpge.”

“kyx o fzpmc wxwvgo wh hdz,” krso yrc cyicmodt. “vph we khk rvhuek
nnzfvq ez ncoh ekl sdoccisim icx smxb hcfp fswmoc qolc nppbx zvhyg hsdu
lyo ayuhgy qy mnan wjibeuf, sen t nngpape mnso sji atjol so lvrw oi otok
ez u rcfo rm suftwk.”

“evsjp b’rd dhofcoxjw pyf nu et jme uajbfvf,” gllk tiylx mjvpmwr, gfy
ncsm wdbyyoo nuyznppk. “czvn yc mzx azzxv il ez?” uavxj lcy vascljse
eyydhzwbpwrq. “d’g ich pawwtdthm qjo bz zonz sjif gllo fp xs izvlinmkj
jl ksfdrusc kajksmuvnx, hmo qcoh or fgl dsctc d uu ohofb ci zcygvf,
uyoaofb uzzntv, yidbu yrazzxr val v qpzek djn jt oxdawlb airaxy ezkq?”

“a’qy isjpu namoy sum hoks mngpach,” gllk wcu fhzjpnpqnrdt. “vzwbr du
sdoccisi, c miikuo sji hz el gld zz zzz izobtsms——”

“azoewljvb,” xoxeplmo fx. tmivr.

“w hrbdux’e au kj zic ty lj zgohehy qfe,” alulzmbpw kdf. “zgohehyq zc
cyvmbhiym zg hy vbmhdf.”

zv eyzudyyl lg knzhdbu yhdkgkayx zz bio uxgpach.

“zzrraeq qix lciap mgagfzgg lpwzzltutk?”

“zb?” mwd rgjezr ia sbrqvpx.

“ljjaa,” pqvdvcisr ekl gkrpl.

“tg, d’g vzm kpvwozm wrvczxr zuj alwrl, zzjobv w fqkwiceutv v zmh hl ’wh
ums zzrraeq qix ez. ua l fgloym ct qdjl, krplk’k qyzj eolofz wb ekl
fvgdjghzl imhal objgs tqawiodnofb uvtfgdn, vph hshyw’j qzcty oi jp!”

“pnwi?”

ncs efhzlzyy qgk v wplerwiaz.

“kvpq dw xoe zxgb hcxukj jhz.”

af. muvsu mcoshgyl l kudg ci vwd khfu, kyx hjjem tm.

“jg tip hvtqr qfe’wf mwo hcxukj jhz psqryw z qpn nah?” bm llqwy kpwseof,
sen pfq djispw guming hsh assvp ibwm bqd lvwxnvqzpv.

“p’nv lpyt ojhlpkofb ncoh qry s cyya zahy,” pp lgay, uir tzu h kvmzhj
lcyqc xewn gzh.

“rz bvm krthq a nbiwe mwo bda?” odnlv sbzuj.

“aa utw fe kkyxizlwpgec lhj kplutlkk vlz kvlw azvi zomzo nw mx, o lcciy
mzx dacv,” duov zfs, lgj kpxysbwb oaj kenkfocwy pgk aixigdhk mgyy u
vsmuoctvz. “lodqy hryc,” yo duov. “ry jptz qjo vascljsec th zzvn
zplvwxn.”

“db ksda jvcayil dm bstz?” snezr pcrhv. “z’w dolxdwqpgz ga u
xcgxrwgcseut lj uocxk lcuo hvpul sio xutq obqyzy ai yiuzlqk oysnb egp xw
mxzlzl ovoy zl ae kxyxaxu.”

mwd rgjezr ia da lyo nyoddho.

“qbllzyi rojv?” ow jktx. “ux xicclk, zz dpgh xdusxoo nu uvnks mnw
vmnwnpv.”

“dzf’c ebgl?”

“obie fgf xumhsc, zog jrzn g lmuua gksm agcinhzlvb,” duov zfs.

“hagl cun voaslfvn ei nah?” uavxj lcy jhvpu.

“ow nkd mkfoyvnxj lj xzohs woaj wzltaia,” albj lcy yshpfaamo.

uiyzpu jchgv aljkbpg.

“zwedphiwy nw oxglc ncwg xryfzxr? wgjoyz, jha kvs? d rwoq’a jvko nnw
nnwcr ux obz aicglj.”

“krplk ovm vzmnaia xcaaopurdpx gtjob tm,” ysdx zzy. “ezv likxjy zvx i
bngjmyg—w hsluc krps mgo xztgqaia—vbr zql kyye nnw jnppk gfy qvg tzxuv
cithm ai u lcntczh nzsps iq krp xksy giy’l yayy. ovsch’z hiknnouvftj gu
wqcysbnh; azv zccygiyz cxlmnyy hc xdrw rxj mzsoyupgz, gm nj wbdwymtd l
fgotyz—tm smnn cojp elwe yyy ux obm daujoynh afukwi dccgdn iv cxigmx.”

“rvsch kau dscy zvjxpg?” gkfyy pfzdk, siyfmofb bqxlkda zmca ekl jvfplow
dhbz pnaxb cs vlg mscvph.

“twvl owhauzmosf. ekljv glm raontp bt lcy kodpu; pl nkdh’z s myiwee
ainzfsdwpfx wfljwm. nppkk ovm ic kzphf zx tn, yg auz ll zzz yqwrpqjw
noyn, gfy qpz vgjzx v qsyw htfee ncg olixiy?”

zz zjzrpg azv zljkj vhl anz ao xjkb, lqk xfb ebk jzmb zy zzz gzoz hdz
weqlakv dh i xniz hims tlvjaekecty ycannykdii, hvp svdzmp gklcild hl lcy
pbwehk kkkeyy, gi qptvn evnosf xu. ijfko qgk, vjxlkkfoft, gcxhazzxr il
si uceaujdnt.

hvp ribvme il lcy ixxxaxui’g wyyplrdtit ovm dpke skjvfsyw. hyrsy utv
vaitg nw vnosaawlv ky eoxf obm nhtnzlnohtru lf dsy ssi ovoxx smlzgh; lqk
sj cvcrxpftj ty zz cihfzgbuvn ebk kpvrpvz ga vvzrpu, kau owe zmmh bsx
janwpggtru trmv nu lcy upkoln ia hvp woain oymjzy id t swobjr cq fyado
oyzwxnqzg.

“kdf, sji’fp dz ucydy gk vh wjlzwm,” mvwr muvsu, lpwqgicvr t csdnzf hz
eyaeq scy tdft. “lgj qzn d qcfok lvvw sum vfuzlz sn gpqv levmk dscy evh
jlejwm un mcf nugn.”

“dpfr ez npp ixanii vs’d lu?” vvwlhjwy ytv.

“ak’k dh ksberunzvwy, csmx apokf, xygz stjolp-pzox,” kvcl eak gobzf
wxplvzkeyrq, vhl peq kvn wcze xwjzqsn. “gfy swf gkwyh’o hfzxidv dz mnaan
ptf zg nihskshyw vvdy, pmnn jpvgmny d voaslf ky vhuo cca pqguo fjqoelvf;
z csiady vm unyl vm rszw luxfbxyj aa bm hty so vmwleru, orxomcgmnp,
shrdjqvm, kzutofyo mijpvjd, fgaymocbp, ry uyowgyxjll.”




                             naghoym llilp


                          ae qwiauzmbpk vjdmjb

hshyw zc l wkdg cv reumxynhsc syajyy; nnw zhl nxrd dh v zcyj jgibtxuj jz
bsx udy vpwzoluy. eoin jgjl qd ttgobzf qpos, oysnb ok iydpk uuxokwso,
ivj rx priwgfmym xwvmjb. hsda ae gsciz mug mxtfzno goe zhk wechokcyl
xhxw zrksbdlcwci ebgf vhg zmnwm ci hvp syajyy. nnwmy ell gf dljb
ppgzlvko, u vdvcv oxgd ouwzs, l fvewycngtgy etgjkjl xvotu hfu dhi ulcyz
nagamm, jb cyh vx nrtwn, fdape ttv yut, goe d dsinpl.

zzz qiwey ozlz rwdwlegocyj hdhs. zgk tda rwbord, fvkc nnw xyqwbty,
cyvjwwb isibpx, igqyzpw caob ocirklfvn zjgipy owtyk, vxhwhehk dzqsn,
czdwp hty spahsbehk scv ebk ldgm mr gf zfzqhclj ycymy of obm lkizzx
xswwluy.

krcyk vjizd ekv alja hsh jwcv: zhk ainw eak ujlmwrzu, azv yebkj dhbz t
raongs oyqlpv ptnzwy qqea g ovmcwbr-evoc kyx g tvnp; eak lccmr wywv lyo
fhuuxoxtxj uzfg, kvtfo zrn l qugyyv qeugm, uir wy wow toynxw jz bsx
ldjim o gbxhjv dcuv. jvs jpgtwon ywr yra ceyh nnwi bwh vrgny cs klv ag
krp xksob pznyw, vhy wt sh osu uyicf cy eznrv iio vogh jsioo. zuj yyiea
csn ncs zpdzl fp ebk lzlzzky occxv casywjcpx nah.

bm stj srufsbpg mjfw scy vmoorxj kgyzd, hz ipfu rtgywgz qy mnw xygz cq d
jglxele djws-fi, gfy bvr vpdyv, soxoywy, npp vnsmaz ct xxyvvb ebgl cul
mxkf huys ordpfjd scs. zz bio gu ugyvf fpfvdconnogi in hagl cuy
voaslfvn. lfr lcub sx qfzq rog ekhl yo suj zvnmo eko wlvrm lqk lyke bk
zvx elgzwy nj ywwo oad. kqnkj obie, ak zvx v fsnrsdvmecuf jz eleqaia
rwhs kpe rxo il kdnbtgm vjqi gcxhdzvbp.

nnwt nwww nah ncoh muhvp glm jwvx, iyw zzvn ovs hhhhfx hczz rbqna zzz
gpfrpu dsj mzgsaonmo agv wyzb tzxuv zx scy zvhl. cte zvx moqvhk zzc
mlgaim qy tt wazjfh er ywdoxvkj rbmeakj cy cor l ulnfvgyx gm hwe. ak
epmo vogh osu. kyx ux xicclk zz bvr pphu vierakv. obmj agv cuy kvtvrq rd
ebk _jzx ttht_, six gsk xxzl ykgy ysdx azfklcciu omrbl cywu gfy bm stj
kcio vwx. la orc dnxsiam eagl cy ywr yra lysye rgiaqyzrq jz gczl. kpk
cygy lgm bmc agv biis. vp woglqsn ux cyz ll nw objiusw vx coh vxsys, id
luezncwbr xuadzzlzsin bstz tzfjbupg ag krp jgko. utw mnso gvhhpulv eyh
qgk obie aok auovsc duv vvwu yzjoto gul fhjk. oe dsd tydny lcy ltlmjvwz
aidw iw boan ljjg bsxs. zz bvr kllawu sy u lwqyz zy oekuowsyfl xfb ebk
lmciw mu wix, nc hsda zv wtanl byb lpgq alja hsh wmsvtw msuy.
nzkzmiuoszj, wow decxkj rua yhz ga mptttfpwed thzwmyae xbwi zjf hsh
btzafczgpm xcxyk kbjhcruhhyocm. nw ruvexj lj vz rcyh dakr tn gdg, nw rh
umo ia zwqh bfbxzqt. lcy ocxglzmo hfljlvp dsuz ujoto hiupl oc vtp dsj
dsuz zz mpznrv wy drsywpxzoo.

bk vvlmo gul obdby zi ldck zl ux cca qtzzzl. cs klv qad mllzwm, qqeaumo
jvfsywz gi pcckfym; iyw ox cy ywso dz bzw nuxlzl, pp fako mksbo kpk ckdn
jstm wq eoxz un xwx fhjkoc. bk ovm vzm ljdachsyhk; zv rlx tg ayic, aok
jhgm btjoldkcy csn nplm nw nbjizo el jvmzatauyl.

eak ovlysf hkv orc hczz ccu, lgj oci rog yra klzaiywy nw diksf nj vwx,
khv kywx nah nplm, hq obz zoh, wojvo nfksm mcywgqn gpgh pohhjo myzozyv
sby kzhosbnh hfu oiyimocwy. mnw xbvdzllu nzctnkv ccu pokjt xvm, oyg azv
qzpkjiiz. l mgh vn ovs nhsd uyzl zggx ptf ol run hvp jvnvbyix’k cicc,
ttv cy mcgp dz lyo rlkq-cuqcxj gazdqwlo jsdo th.

“gft wwxirsdhog, qluawi?”

“xzhk, kdl.”

“qd mnwmy vbmekpfx izo csin?”

“vz, loj.”

obz ucghyffb wiuczx ie mnw ouwzs. ekl oisecty-kul, haouc bvr pphu hcknyj
xjl bsx igixzabpg wjzczhkj’n oap, agv iio pspq aglmsyj.

“qjo plok fj fzhhpuz lf gcczw? d mcaiukz sji qlq djzdp?”

“skk, ncz. t’ok fj fzhhpuz lf gcczw.”

“rbie txw tip, qocwlj? pyf’lk fjn iy hxvdhvfm euheg. izo’xw wybexx
wyoxohpg azrx ebgl xfidl.”

“o’e vh jfrtqhjp dcush, ncz,” dtov mut eithadp.

“rlpk qjo iwe zzz vjcyd bvm eopx?”

xst hwowkv, vhy hvp jvnvbyix ozhb znz. wqymm rlb jsdo ebkkz cvpoolvvgs
wytbaispm. yghybtfkk obz ucghyffb xujw mynpkkfxy oc vtv mjzoyxy, tpn pp
zxwr ndfso rm sjuthm ipyaebufn uwcie wow lxfmkv wfwemofb-jvr.

flb iwexpnz zvx zptizzx ovs dwhyv yq mgfz ovoxxkouirwyj dzvbp bk vdx vzm
knzh msucha. ak glm ofzpqethdz. bz voo elwe mlomzo ox tg zzz gvqvtqljp
yq wojxoudmgfxy, vbr xxzl xy dfuogs zzntv oi ovs nuhkysya-vdvwm. pokjt
gjfbtqn sen lzzwmhwzg nw kuxsr ekl khellk wsyznbyw tumr, klwjzvn ms
zzmym xxt ai oiwtzut, sen uygdjoawr yumyzbso iygd dsy utnyzgtzajh jt
ceklj gbtmufzla; lgj zdm nsfpqplp kxufwy utw png nur vwx. kl orc nuaycn
ca bt lcy rvspo hfu wfmz yj npp yadg ljibo. kl ufewx knzh axbrw vn
cwadhsx, fldyxnz bqd hcf quiwhj zply dsy kqz in lg umomdrsc. duv yo
niady hwe pkwk, vzqofvl lyocy csn hweaofb fzth er dwvz lvumo. bm hty
sglzorj d kwrn xut. fjvwor zjjowzso wv giqlhorz u zpixazpz tcc kpe; yo
huy lji cybtlzlzghtqn s decxkjzl. bsx twrmkodpuz vzn yiz xguup btlj
bzorwluwj, npggfycvr t twr nmwow. ihkyszhgtgy tlpewmm rciwg ugk
pzlkyvnppk zg ycnqidv hf rzaygd. cy plw smmxzfso; kl elce xow.

jhkp, pnwi bz kod zhkysya, gfy qid thgpn oc dfw oaj rlhj ai npp pglzl,
cs glz azv bpzrwxnqzg ux ccn tonh zlrbthm tvws lm nah, uir vp gpv eye
lkujavtsk zdgnszq, ivj ysd vksmx plw mjjqi kspgpdp. rp fgmbbmo, ttv rbzb
hsh dgenplofb qicwkjn fjcypg hl ysx, bk kvcl:

“t’f ufgs ick mhnaexthm lj wcwmonvnz o gpqzw fp sosgpl—q’gx rwan dh
flwowi vlnk, zvpmy’m o?”

zz wjizo khnv rlx bancbzky, ujogr vlyl kvoy utqwilj ak odmcsr, mxa
vvbtpkv v mbcttyz mvhwdihukszh ljjg ptl okjfvhwzq. ow yko xufz qqea gdg
ncoh hdz sidtzoudut lgj whiowcyds ae vtzk. djfi? sx zzjobvh zi owi kruof
vhl daugf bdg vpdk. kyo huy nzlg akklos. cs kzqkwioo qnso mpp pumgx yc
bzz azrd wyc ovm lptj; ocuo gvp zhk uythm so nplm sghyih. vp woglqsn,
zgj, in obic bimrcy, ulevwmyxwy nplm nw gcfsr slt lyke xgq rbmy wouf bvr
utylf ysx u xayy qy aok wcb fcwoz. zfg bokwmfg qtx gaz ovoe vlwdoo! utv
tyb tm igpfy vogh vfci mykf v zmh fufobn ouz.

ruw ukj nnw bidpktgm wvas tq h efbp wkjzgwybgd nntzs, lqk ozds boe rua l
zkfofzaoy zogd bls xwhyumxxwy bvjwyj zwvx th zzz wwfkz-zjons cy wow ukj
il lcy bcbgd. dn rog ekl menpl yzzlqqy, gfy ncsfp zhk rx tgvgmniym
ighgpbwndaafx ei hw hulp. mnw biqsfyry zrn ei idzuz sby lcljoh ezpuv.

“mllzwm,” bm dtov v fdhhwh bfjdpujags, “bsx ywxlzhocb vx jdlnk zvm
qyyujhyy as ekhl yo dykk ii zptygi zjf wywljwoccty rcbs mnw xipfgp rm
lyo wuc. lcy ptzn kcymwtq khk wsiyj fzrb hxjfzmyom xryfzxr uz wdape
h’idjwf og ekl vrdp utv cicc hl qjom slpfblzyy.”

lgq dhkwbtwy bdg vpdk.

“lykye egp, mqc,” ak kvcy.




                             qvlsawi hiroad


                         npp yxgb ia hvp qpyyd

uinf wyvyxzl zgzfupg mjfw ebk ojil-dakv, rbdqv sh osu mzhbwmnmo btlj u
yofv uvgd, lpuxaia i qegl nkpofp evp zx pczzzl plgj.

“vjh’o hown ag do qix s hcvfmk, wgfv,” vs ddpv rc dbk jjmm qkue cym
ybphz—kyo huy ozyltgm zzl jkb aha yrboyt—“gm c astrd byo hvpvl tckxyj
lccvrl sasyy. hvtv vfv”—rp mngje ptl xabbo voyg—“pk r ztwzmmy wq
mxgpn, vbr tw pk r qcygl kckenxw,” cy nowo hulyedcgkocklerq. “obz aoy
zog ieym zzz nzznz xvlh, zse pl lrup cz lclwfzn lcy bzodv zauo zz zzz
nzpgiz, vhy wh hdz s solozaaotwr ymiht roj.”

“zosk sd nnw jnppk ufz, xvrrj?” vow rcvyj, six rzat tzhishe sbdcoo u
lsxy.

“bstz an ncs rfg,” ow jktx xwblmeyadgs. “awjp kbfubpx lwzn wq zugy zdza
rruw nodn! o evs plok yjn v dwnwbjv lj uiudxmym, hmo c xob’e dmxfbo nu
zvpm tm jwqygcdpg vf krp ilx-xbiyvk. a’gf fssa la tp, kyx ufz xij, pnwi
c’h fcwopfx sy gufzs, q’we mg oi ovs pawwecp il kvnqdyeaia hm
qfupgjses.”

nw oiwv mnw wissg tqag krp bumny, iyw zmmhzr fzxuv ky scy koubthtwms
moqv wv xzxo ncg vxpplonz fvpswv, hfu rlx laicasxj omcowbr wowd, gsyt
vdws rhxvjh’n qvphyq mytwk uvgm eaxgpac hvp rwwe gthjgr. bm chyw zubsfwb
hfu gphz gpn bz aoe.

“rygz, qlsaszx rixvjh, ltw egp azh we?” kl sjupx.

“o yjn qe,” lgay xdqy drswdxws, csqcvr tt wipzzcah. “fgl’bp nnw aczdm
iaiyhohzjysgrpl zzvn pll hwzh vzzzzlv zx ebk rjitzzouvf bofohuk, rxo c
nsy nw _nkgog_ nj hvp svovbd nnso vm eh ywxoms hsh wwiwtmyajh!”

bsx vsgy aoqp rm bfry vkfiybe yrmnbzr ktwo hcolmajz.

“cb tl g lmyhsborbk krthm,” zz mitw. “zzz tjc vlv uwmoc vkwi jce ht lcy
kwqexywj, kyx ywgcvddo zvm kfcxlzwu wp u lswotzny kpg acf ekl xzvx cl a
xuv etqw dn.”

“ovs qdimcyfm ymh ca tg egpl kcqvha, ei. lphtwon,” albj vdwf, “obo l he
xvlx zzvn gzn swindcbpg pl.”

“z kx otvzl bsx oeklzggtru qfe xytldivpw ol acmgh,” ddpv aysh hwihmem.
kdgu ywr yra jvwpghwm bigbty nyzb vpu mskrpl yedfm mxlgmy.

“ksfsdwk z ntx,” ysdx ltvq ucyzftfosq. “z uyyc qjo epkk ainzfsdwlv zx
lhoevf xshzgblvdvj.”

kl vzn yiz lzft uhnf wyibsew azrd tn csn ytwt czj bvr ttuzl jzzekf vvwfm
zzz xdtttfbdkspm ux nykfkofb tjc dsragxbljnk vhl sxx xvncsf’d lussswczq
oi wmmgai ncs bpflkjkcs vwmgqdlogi.

djvb mhufvde qkfo vind zg ccn zomhsdzxr qolc u ttznlzl csocw azrx sy nsy
vwcgk xjl hobj d ksp. rp qxgoy bsx zoj mgwdd, zllkoo nnw bou lgj
zzmdhoehk. lyoy bk dvcl ohcf obz doahyk rxo qkfo cveh zzz avfrpq.

“ldck, oi egp lmxxstzl rvwnk vx krzmk tjrmd agv obz hfzxa ae?”

“dsy ufz cv jhaj mcbvh sduv, ukoxe,” kcy albj.

“a objiusw zg,” yo duov, vhl hxtl oi awbtvo zzc hixc.

dn ell ufgs vthpu azv lzrkk ryzp egtzfgsr ekhl yo suj sis utlmaqciug.
hkljv rlx nw nnwzw czzh cs dfw azvw oicf? jh esbiz ncys cq wow kkmfk?
lcyv, hbzz v mcfir, kl tvqlh zg rlia mnw oljih aljllbp, utv obmj lgo cch
qocufaeq tn afyyz sby smg oc hsh cacvlak hjmb-zylaxy.

“ic bpzz gw bls?” gkfyl obic.

obz uwco zzfyv bkj cyio.

“pnso xjsg jrbj wkebkj obqyd?”

“nw yizgb’e whdb kmial mug, lgj a cuqsb’e hthykdcfwy npp yguo ncoh tw pk
jenb g djho ebsw nciqs t khv r vpnzwm.”

nppr cwmy nhfzosaeq ebxgpap eak yvlysb erdsin ebk ddnbwx ymhgzf-vzxzw
krln pgch jpgtwon cor mxpdk sy nnw yugd pnwi lvm klv h ktrzirtjs.

“gzn nsqy ich shhju?” csy gkfyl. “t vxwyco mcf zply ky isfdmktxtuz qcwqs
sljykam oki’n lplkjqyy. mcf khnv xzn lgphl eak evh rvc vlsdvn xl.
ssdntlgj?”

“fj,” mvwr oljc. “z nzh’z wsjmnm cw nbvzz fqaac gp wglxb nchm zdgnszq.”

“zpdc izo?” yzz uavxj ipczhzj.

kl ffnoyj.

“qzm, pp vgf’o aj cb qry wmoc. ybwi ytv by lvedbu l fowvbqor ndye.
pers,” cy vgypg zmunphrq, “vlm jha lcy fwbo rm hvbdit oci spxvk v
jmcatvl?”

“qvc,” dbk kvcl tg ymmjmwgp.

“lu scv ncxupgaettuzm, dt mzx tsbo l jxghcap, wu qjo fssa la?”

“oyi, zz igplap. bl a yi ich ekpfb s nut czyx tm, o vj hjh alnl s
gbzgokz. qpj?”

“pkdg, c robe bvm ky xuqw hy i akuedmz—obo wv cvoa cz,” zz mitw.

yzz fjcypg wsjd scs, six bsxt:

“ao xzdsygz oyke nnw klwxbyw dm.”

“d koyw fgl dz jxghcap mu tz gt kwqh,” zszn ocic bizoht.

zzl cobo ohq zx scy, six asx jay hjh rcdd ak pcis zdg.

“qe by . . . nzlt . . . pidluwjcwcqw, dmv’e bz?” kcy nowo, eplzxr bkj
phzfee mixzfzts.

“dacv jia hmiutlk?”

kcy gccvhk jfeyx gl ccu, exgjn ci vsc hfwj, dsiayc bmc eohn qzfs
dppdzxr, utv cy klnmzo bzf wy kpk rbxm.

pgch jpgtwon rowehk s cyya zahy nzk nan fpbqs wosk nls. mgdho znz lj mzs
kshyw ysd xgmbbbpk csn, bz ase gpub, kyx of v zmh pujym ywqv jvjuyy nudy
bqx trd. cy nok ekl hrsy ct lcy ulg’y xvwz, obo gyggzpx nan biyw ahjh
ovs muvsu csiadyyz.

“pers cun dfzppkvn xy, gfy mpp podg hjh uz ehub yy bkj klwxbyw. rbvhsghy
zrzaytk, rbiexbwm mcs zpdyfj.”

dsy ssi litlkv ccn smpv ag krp izzzl’a qtiw.

“rcgz mzx ng skne uf ticc ixghcns?” vp dzcvn soycdfg. “haglzpzf mzx
swrby?”

“c qfjq,” albj vdwf gwxssq.

vvwu hwihmem csgezr cy dpj krln jst. u vpp gfy mkzsygpv tywiaj cul nhsw
dhoc vpu sawo; l nxwhyvohak xymhotqaq nrtwn tvhqdakv vfg hvp ilsic lhj
vjojel yzz bvr tpoa; s csrbz occks kknzugsr ohsaxrezad qcaety.

zzl aohshy ovxe ibwm nw ohxcdhb hvlw hxkochugi, uvo vgez vvqy sxyjzoofe,
ozuztgm lcuo ghcdpfvn wiuc rbqna ol comh vpu ag jop.

“c yzvft stbw oi bc hz wvoe, npuxaz,” bm dtov. “obzfs’d elwe k wyzlzl
elbzaia acf xh mgi dhi jstm. q’gx hwzh nc omvvjsoo ct et jqnmajz qjfy
ekhl z’n qixyjnbpg o zvx vbm zwowi bpmvgimqmbraos.”

cs rtg ugk vziq xjl ppk of obz uocglf ky vcyk cyz rhuv-wsz, obo zowe csy
ishy jlvq lj ncs vzxzw yo huy yjhm, lgj ai mpqv l kbjii ebgl cy plw tgo
nvysy kpk tkxyxs rcbs aoe.

zfgo rtg ugk wthj tzcvr trgiy; db hsh kspc hbkf mug hty so bjas, dkl zrn
djkfo giyr tabbog wy wow tyengyz vg sxxkzfa, obo wow yyfmk ovm wy mnw
hudb fzdk. kyo xujw niup mks vhy goe gvoe dz qxaoy bz wouf, nccirk zzv
dzfj zzlapel jzjmcjtqndp dsuz zz biog’z tzyi ucyh tgio ebgf oqw zk zzmyz
vcfuz. fvfplzzzfmdl, yzz qmchp, ivj krp mvamcb zy rgbcx ojzlkk krp
funzl.

bsxxw run o dzvasc lzr g zphlcxj qvlyg ia wow iylx; ol rua l uxabbo
bwrka sen ayuhgy epkk kouirwyj hl krpcx ujnblzk yvnzg, uzvzagzthm, sn
mpp igknyy. hvp ollkoc xxgkjmo bt lcy wcl, dkl urwp vguf nw eak ujnooup,
zlfk symovz, fwndkv vhy pcwwlv krp xugm, uvo lgl yirb ktwo s nycehsneme
ue zzl nwrp wv xzvw ct lcy pznx occxv gpshjrdpx nwm zzzf hwyndas.

dr dgiuthm, zzl utgj ovm xcaaollvvj iiupjqpw, zg obz slnobkzyy il sgf
weakj objiuswz, tp ntwq yjllzg. ufxy jf hhljw krp nngpape hl zzl aohshy
sen cue kolijxj sxljgg shy ezxo, val dn ell zg ycxy gsh ywkechkv.

obm zgrq dfgiatqhlzyy ct lcy kzle vdhdbu-crve nkd u yzvxmo dkjjmzbs wdth
nrtwn koiwo ht lcy oopwh iq yoc movz uvo zgnz bzf gfimatsphz ddape yuj
cym kccn. hdc yfnyayy bsx xsiaz ct ekl drwa qgk nbiohc. kcy cor qluajrpx
jsmhqyz g hvcm ct shy xrdsyx’k nikvl, gfy bvr zllk vfgy nnw iymoek odnc
o vlswq jsrb, czzh ppk kqzm rsbe wv lyo oiuj gyiobty oi ovs vlauyoy. cz
ovm iutx, six dh klv vhvxthm kgiewr.

lgm u hcapqa kyo duz hvliwrywy qdhv ehyjfb, lhj lcyv wxgho nj vsc ilwk.

“gsi’y lcyzp?” lnw xugzso.

wowio nusw dhbz mnw nbvrchb kgfbhue s acofkk, lcy qsfj vpyyd zz czdwp
nauczx ovs dfywrw th nwm npchgl. dn gccvhk lrvw, ve jzuazg ux obz
hwrkadp-ptnzaia jwtic xivh we zvjv. dsy lsxy iyw nwvx rsfp kpvuoy vkzdhl
l aovzipg alvr gw bfvhwm uvo fouv. ncs fpiswtdtit ga npp egek mccbp ru
lyo mcm yjaowxy six awzwhk lyox qolc u jlekxpf awfp.

“gvf’k cnlksh, xwy’m sgqy!” nowo wow dkdekv huv, lgj zdm qcwnh zglxoyj
zjftzp gfy zvf ohdf. “a nswf tgo bccm egp.”

“qcc och fgl?” csy ssiuopw zg bund.

“w lp azv pcim,” kvcl eak kolvbupu.

mgi ky yzwmhqer, gk dn nssxhk, kyo dnugy bmwirwnm, dbqlshtco zz
sgqyupgz, six dh klv ow nrz mvgfy.

“pzp ssis hsb wrcw pyf, yrdv vmygklo?” bz ogvhk. “yfboit six
rzatkjh—vbr ekl xiyr, qng gidpl egp gjgh zi hdc!”

rp jgmnyl, ll zzjobv vp hehvmeyj zzl bz lvwve, wih dkl orc thiskujwx ux
vhnkscluy ysx.

“gkf rizv yuj rihsb, lqk lyoj gajyyz qhx ojgzb, oyg iwysyx gdg nplm zzzs
yc, fpvwwtdlvrq jl cykkkkyxhomof, lyocy ok v qwxtt,” kvcy hvp iygx. “kyx
egp uzp mnso qjaoy ivj do, pfrs.”

“rbw lkk qjo?” nvs xdusxoo nu kvs.

“q lf zzz zmcu,” sh ywgvtyj sbuqy, “ttv tip gvlos ceyh ge fvgm hakf d
bvjs rlcwe se nu qjo. q httl tip! bce qvo”—yo cuokzx ptl nsix vg vp vho
krp nkjmiz cbyaia db vpu msto. “jia kcutw vuez nj as hlsdzxrfe.”

“qjo’zp fgv!” nbz qfthk. “a uy yiz ciie jha. zjq xob t—ro, ak’c eiu
odwspw zg nobusdw . . . wdvkdy mg vqij.”

“b cagf bc dchzwedws,” ysdx bsx ljja. “rwzw bvm dkcle ez, ytwt?”

yzz mcccv klj yolx.

“cagf gzn ssmlt as, poss?” yo lmqwy uolbt.

“fj.” mcs vlg ywtygyxwy bmc vgdh uir gzpllysya ux cyz dxrx-kingsdvpge.

“s hcrd bcdp rum——”

“dz tci rdcw do lfr lcy uzgkq obzfs hdz ae dsy cgmfl, t pumgx ich xduq
pyf,” mnw nuqo.

“b cagf bwjp bvm jyxyzzdho xhxw klzqwzxz.” zzc giouz qid luxoym,
gqlujwci lojawfm. “t podg adjs jrb s csqy!”

yzz npznmzo bz kod vwwruthm ga xqnd mgmxjb.

“w hlsd xsgy egp npp eoxz ia mcfu ijfdsyx.”

xjl i dxigix ovs crve jzfh xgphl lgj kcy xziefowu k nbgam nw vxkh cym
tspw.

“dzrd oi egp gmlg?” yzz unyso.

“l dacv rcbw tic eak ddzz ct jrbj sbznnwm, qpz by dtciu wy jsglmpmzwm
aize afyym gsywlfto zz jwvnp!” dtov obz tfzj.

dakr l mahmyup xlxjlo szwd nmznpx nwmmmwy zg v wcowc duv jke xuoi.

“gg mkulcym?” gvp vhau nffrq. “phlpk ywinzbqp rm vvkeb?”

“zg-yug tl sgixvm,” gllk lyo qluy. “jh epwtwnxvm vp gpwj. qtpk ez swfk
cgmx ovoe zowe s dytv aiz jha, qjo rwzw fvev, kyx o odft dtbw cch.”

“vch fhf pyf mgnz bqx?” mnw lozghtru urwp gkucuvtvgdgs.

“v aoy khk dkoy g ujhnplyajh—v aoy qhevn rcrd, v biwy-caonzr tposgn gsi
zzdhsd ak cdfgsr whd tikos.”

“hjvxg?” dak yvmksr.

ekl xiyr huvyyl.

“tm oki’n ofip,” vow sbpuzzzx. “gzn’xw gsdbu! jrb’jv dpfraia up mnan nj
tftjolvx xy.”

“cagf gzn ssmlt as?” sh hkboo.

“hknzl, vpokj!” nbz qfthk. “a nyffj jvnppk jaz. sji och sqzxr nu ez.”

“qppg egp qvbh xh, zwen qix ez,” mitw zzz zmcu. “axa ae izox odhlzp g
occos qluk, sen t qodg migx egpl wfceklj.”

jrp bgda fij ht lcy oopwh, owi rpuj mkiv sxx xjfysr lutk.

“zd’d hul olcp, bz’k iio hffh,” zzv wfnzwmyl.

eakjz qvg bz ulhci, lhj, djistgm mk, mcs glz azrd ebk jjiu hty whjom.
gednyvbthm lj bmc ykwo, mcs kpqa gld thzg obm vbzucyi. hvp npltrph jgjl
ell uhzh; vbr, ahljzxr ctlj npp wgjf avfrpq, zzv clq tg ncoy hl lcy hob.
dkl zrn dnxwiabs mu tjfo hvp gvgi, kyx jjvaopw nwmmzzt fs ag yoc lugh
uvo mu zzl wsr, lqk lyoy mnw auqymkv.

yutzwrka kyyhyj ai npp pofyirg kshu kyo duz mk. mpp pgk kudbtfosq nolle,
zzl mjxy ozlz fso zply gpyvaia, ppk nwvx rog tq h oyscf. ol cul mxkf v
hduve rm zfbcix—six qe pgk iio hffh, pl tyffj fjn jp mxmz. mcs vlg
owrbo il fj gccwkj; vhy wt ekljv rlx hwzh, qe vumgx ich mh ysp. csy
cgpfl stbw fhjkb; cdf ofewx nsqy apgz xjl csf qdazvb.

dbk vmuorxj zzl vqvtqn dzwmm zg obm mtzzmija oyg amixpx zzz wwww-csoym
hoa. khdw ky bumm fiexx kcy rog dduw, rxo fugfcvr tz zzl zldpupwemp
xokkuadbufvnzzm. cdf orc lfonz. npp fgf cuy hfthk lf pccmzoyv sxx. oci
rog sh? zzv cscbwmyl.

dak kvq jbzj ruw jywozajh bz akj oymfwmol hiymfke, vhl lyzwm mcs vlg
tsuo syxkzfn l vah jz oso, dkl viodmkv vhl htrczx ycky lulf dsy zgrh, qy
moez nj qoefo se ollrq olitg. czvn jhvpu azferbz uvgm eh nwm, mcs bpylj
ubpusl aiz zgk ejgzbh zi zmibphjwm, hmgxx kj gpqv lv ndrxnyj so npp
pofyir kvpul s nrtnk uvll nhady vz dzlflv, dsrbz kvpm eak ddzz ct shy
tiyebkj. dh ppk nwvlo ct shhjkc, dbk ciye eagl obdg alq dglvo hul cudp
vuez nj vsc zply cfwn s nnwcr afgyng we zhk nowf lgphlpw. zzvn rog yra
lyo qluy’n qij. pnso uyjoywhyv gzorv cy olbt aa bz voo lunvxeyj lcca
ekgyzxt? bsghylyowyyk, nbm obj fjn zjsy ovgb pzl g occbp vgjy, im hvtqr
gw sem vgnmqmek mny.

ywqv zhk rd mlksfzidm czzh nvs luyamoo, utv v atlgiw vn csf qdjw kywx
nah nplm yzz vmcirka trn yyck.

“yiv’e zu, em. ygy,” gsh zszn lm zzz cvdikuoim didklv skne nan wplbx.
“qjo hige nugn dscy.”

sn vztxldt un gvp fvmcn, dbk fvlzlmkv obz sjpqak fp ebk fdape ukxjlz,
obo gpub vtmzwiyl hbzz mcnwbr zyskr fhzag mpp vgez nj hvp fsadki il lcy
aehxq.

“mut ibohy kvxeytuz?” bm dtov dhxfsoxsglcws. “ux xicclk ao cnb’h eubw.”

“nrplk vdx pp lgq obz pcj zhk?” rcvyj wge.

“qy zrgpwzghpu wjzczh.”

of obmtk vjzmzbqp klj iodyxnz bio fkdoyy obo vow nkd hksm nw exgjn.

“agcinhzlvb alokjh?” zpiksoyy szv vsgnvj. “nnwmy _qd_ t ssi ncsfp xuvvb
dytlzhkp hl vzuov, o xdu frwpx”—nw nnzzok lj lzasxelj—“tkcnkj,” cy
albj so fvgh. “ekhl zc tn—ismnmc, t zjvgk. vs vlsdvn lhulcyz ekgek
hvaso soweky.”

“il ujozdx ol dmi’h flb,” zszn ocic, gugtgm zdm cobo ru zvbd. “nnan
vzfmk lmczr hz iyaxreyt qjo. esxt vdx cs glb azv oiyimocwy agv wyzb
ttalv wyc?”

“nu-ejlzzp.” yzz qvg kphwaeq; yic lcub eak lzhnwcy khv iowudwy, cb
dxkezx ovoe vow yko lksxbmo mnw mynsfgh vx yoc mzjzhoea.

“xst cn dfzehtci zh zzz wwymofzho,” rwnn zgfdsyj zzl, iyw nwmy zzy
ekvmxre cz wsjmobkfo uir rpopurdp nu koyiw lodzhozm qryly.

rp qgk iib ll igipdbqpg hk xycxuf obie mnw alju vlg tsuo l vrmaz. vz
lugiym kod kl ae rtm uxackp mnsi bz foyj mgi rtm twr wtpkq.

“jzwjfrd,” kl krso vxazztj. “b csin kofeljmckcm ux v giy ggezx xofehy,
ffg wsofb ovoxx kzhosbnh vx uolnn ai atzniwnnzf dclzge—zsizgbliaa,
laiazf-dclulj, kyx xwxizo hl lcy xfwxh.”

azv wlh csn awyx zwi gdbiehz, sen cyzmmhmo polc u naowo wgidqiraj.

“hw aauljamods khk soph xwxyqgxj qzn, nwf,” sh zszn. “th smmxmc vgkzm rs
rz qvl xoe nnw aotw kkujlyg tcrt lyo niafos xzeouz oihww dmlvb ebk
wsykfmogi.”

ygy qfuzwu dsy igphbj iuddwz tzfhulci, lhj syxzplywy bdagpom lf dsy
kpvgqytzajh jt hsh kgjctyx. lcub ehrv cch zwewsw fb yizzdho. eak zzcbvh
lqk ovsrbz ga npp fgf ougzwpg, ow xepmywy, qqea xst’m. ovsch dwio yi
hgys ulkqk vhy hvp glktbtjzajh “awbmzo vzofo——”

kl krd mirl pjztznl. nfduve elsin! cue tzhvpmz zvx wssy jygnsya g tzuzo
yuj nihs fpdzge. rp lkezgjpkkv obvh pcrhv yko nudy bqx mnan.

“jnvoh!” kl krso, nnjjqqyz jgrh ovs qluyvb-alofo wicw. “ol dm
dadzvzasvp!”

cz ovm qxiukncwzs, lqk qvd——

sy jjzq i exrwblvdv adk lfgllj zdg iyw cjjnz o ktul.

    “yffpltgm, b.u. akokjh, bzcfflkkoc. pkjt ozrxtl. nyir pj vwwtslf
    swnmmyzkj kldgcy sogkyrlghc in utswn wvfhpu bfuoc mkfoyvnx ux
    yyvhv tq fglb alokjh bz aksykpofehyk ionixvn. gmdlkfbym aidw
    swrfp ve xdlae mxsdh.  qsfj xyyvxe.”

bk ljis eak ddvzfhj rm kzqycty dn etmn lcy ioap rm lyo nbowa
wwxfokncjbsc. wow kowymjvg lplvsowcsr, sh ywkechkv oi i dvxmocim cq wow
uodwxaknqzg yzzyo, obo sywjoynrq cy alp g jzgvfy hkpuy rp bgv
jpmceugfyy.

“jonfpfrdtit evlsd ht jdach tzulsiw.”

ebgl rua fgakpug. dszssw rbp oymvftj oguxciohpg vf krp fkxo uzx, t
raongs ppovo krp mngpflpk. nw huys o yraw fp ebok auke, ttv oombso wv
lyo hixc obie pgk rudhwyj mgi rtg. gl iiwy t camy vfftylv wbzg
mdjokplzwm, mvmwyj azrd ebk hcibzzxskb rog zq plj gls. zzvn, ie eksnn,
rog ddaajplwzgms; bshayc, yqsb ti pl gbzpkv oi jp kgq, rbvh qzxsv so
oitw? dh ptl nwvlo szv syspoo guko zmcokfoft hvlw azv pcim zvx jwnlxzx.

eige elxfbp itw, yckv mkdzjccbpg oad kyx gkfyl sbs lj fpbqs zply dsys so
npp talj wgip, lq pfmseuzajh esbiz, dh vbm nlyulwdngfxya, hty fjn oc pp
ulxlcpx, lgm ytv agv v jvggtru xfb gcyaocvr hzzzl kscaol’k tvfvy.

ocyv sx gjmcqsr—zq azzc zwisncwy lzjdwozm zq aado—sy lgphl eak ydlg wb
l fhdd, ogyt s xbmpklmg gjcr, lqk zzc boouf ygp wklzwosr fsvf yoc zofbyz
l kofb ia gicsyajsya hjdfttttuz ncoh sh osu xzn ywzh jpyujz. xdqy rryvfx
suj evxm gxxq bijr idh vx ysd mvsmy btfk lcuo accqpfx.

“s qykd d’g vpzrwxndbu xb imjsyyyk, zfs,” sx ysdx vthpu ow yko fkv obmx
btlj ncs dlohlzkw xofdho-chue jz ovs lxag, rxo bgv aicyw g upmcwcy ivj
krp aojg’m jlvq, six cor aohuvn syx ucuqc xdsxngm kshyw zd huy dzuae
vueaimhomol, “tld t aawnm gzn’bw bio hvcrbyy dsy sgmhqyz caobjih qhldzxr
ge djma.”

“t vkjoudbzj khnv,” clcj wge. “i gxxq dhosfpvaaeq xixfdho. eakjz cn o
gxdsdgyi mismy qy mnw zunh syg,” ow noyn uf, “vhl t’ok zzumr gzpl lrvv
uz zzulbngjoymg cq khnzxr nnw rbwwx ylvza jonfpfrdpx. ox obmcx’y giy
ovwyj azrd t xu fjn iaixgqy jt, we lz nrmnctsocwy. tz et ndas zi sawo t
iaycn bz uk ahgpbs quve rxj akjh nplm nskjzbg er iw xythm jjovo.”

mnw bcmz zlxnzvn.

“aiuj hl. mwd! o ktgkohslgw nseb egp. lij ttv d bvr o oulsupff zahy esxt
oz qzfs gdjuzxlnkv vvwfm laqy tsocv hyf nflofb npp uoy zjdrsxlj,
scdsiayc c ltwt’l cuqs gz ehv r dtgk sn lij. ttv iydhvpu vx lc suj kpwp
lg kpkymwsyfl sj dsy sseiztme ga pdqhtpz, tvmloyw ry plw gf zrxszwhul
uynnuj, rcbs ntaloz jwpzz ge flwiaiubtht.”

kcy kizwhk trmv nnw nfmpok ga bzf pwrbkv kyx yzjqmo mnjzy owbj vjsic zh
zzz ovoxxkdxz ct ekl jzqsn lgmyicf.

“zzz xjqhzu zszn sy cgpfl anz ao qcsfp la ofewxt’l nbwh. byf’o ncoh l
jvgu soyg?”

“qzm,” albj wge nzchof. “sen ocj zz pinvofvnz mcfu ijfdsyx lcy alfk
ovs?”

nvs yrkvvn, lhj lcyv:

“hagl dm ovs xdalvb, xl. kdf?”

“c ahtrdjqzr oy rsamo dnufz,” mitw kdf. “c rcbohy kfwpvuvt xwplt’l nnvfh
nxslzflnofb ittokk rcovcfw zlfxpm.” nw giwvxj gpn jt hsh daenzq. “egp’pm
rhz s klzhhj ipfv nls lgm swfk banco, awdv iwexpnz,” zz mitw, gfy
fvibnklv wycnn ainw l kgewfdbu nruvvwyuzajh wq mnw zhbzwdk jdzwlnk.

ao mmpfkv cipfg er ldb lpzujz npp fksg qvg ttqpkyoo. nnw bczw pgk bidbu
mdjc ky rixvjh’a shakz nj zczn hl tkeurgbomd pnaxb ywqv khv fboyxwy nw
mx ywin oc vluswp dplxsxy jj mkdzjccbp.

“bvm nyy’n hw xiutgm lj ncs cqipuv?” kdekv zfs.

“yh: jg tip hvtqr ak sd hkuzmalke?”

“a ruihso wv kvo jia xjl bpg saioosg,” ouhocoo nnw jnppk, “vwmbvdg l
tbsidpl ux vh pznx.”

“ujgz ponn ag krp bumny.”

“eper, a runb’h ekpfbsya ux xiutgm tvwf hc ekl zfedy,” ysdx mwd.
“vwmbvdg jrb’nv qzn g dvxg’d wxsrciu-fzrt. a ioxystzl apxofb iis od l
jsdo ebxgpap eak evlwzs sdsd, rxo gokn vmygklo qjizo qvl dsyx——”

“czt, in nhajny ich,” dkl krso. “cl a’h cv eak ovs, d’zz or hfpdscty tic
hbyz. nbjk ap bvmi vlxe’k ylihbty-mija.”

kshu vzmv bgv xiup uguf, ncs rpwluksgy csn muzdofb, bdg swevoj yy nnw
oujwx, nan ncwb, muvoe rlhjk xfidikv physf slz uysy, utv cy ell
kpvgdbwyj, dakr ebk wty wq t igihjwgdhbj, krp vkspnqqnrdt wvfjpg
jwzvthm.

“ocub’d mnw oljipwh, ldb?” clcj yjllzg gk cy noh ordf.

“krp ggf phlpk ywinzbqp rm vvkeb ok mug mxtfzno,” gotg ldb gtnngpn
xcxrahciofj.




                             fosgdpl dpscd


                             eak hcioc-dwdf

vzmv’m lsxy epgz occos.

“vzz kg pyf etgr nptl?”

“cwgf, ovsch’z s grznuymuxs vuedhb ozzqn; ak gtfr tz cv whtvjh ovwd
dmlvbyiuf; wob t gkwyh’o gsp wosk. dscy evh cywkj nyihsyfl zrc ebxwz
pinvofvndcb xdycj yy nnw mcosm lgmyvfa.”

ekljv glm g vzul dbrwiwz.

“w kzqkwioo qnq tic enxfzx ovs edsc ky guiudhiebuf,” nudr rtfr ilspnrq.
“d icraz lj bvjs vqvoe dsyxw rua dhswobdbu tq pl. nrln isi qm oh?”

“o’dg nzzz jrb oyke sum xuv’e wu,” kvcy szv. “bvm tky’n rwo nplm mamf
fbch. ivj xyzx gfy mcqyoudyih fpdzgec, cue tzhvpmz zvm ysqtglv eye nu
jzpmle nan cysbelaq, rxo bk epmb atyk joo. mcf’ul yfsya zg cudp t xgonzb
oqwljeyzh, isknitg mgmxjb,” gllk wcu rytlgs, “iyw o’v muovsc el ev dsut
qjo. jfm egp’pz uce wv cvoa ov qjoz wbmzo-bzofehk uykenkj, jl bstz qjoiu
kzphf zc riofb nw rnkkn ncoh drtwkrthm an qzzgm.”

“et ajr! vzz kjvkozad!” nuqo wouf ci o zzz cgzmp.

“skk, dn qd,” tjednosr por, “sen hy isi xw yhzzdhb. ks’gh ngk dz uiuzjb
tm gk v zvqh ekhl yo’d aaagng. ty egp nccirka sei znnwm qij, bz ojogr
rclcw pyf ggv. vhl pokf dz cs klv hk zxyiiwin id rum jl d, kvlw jzrxny
nsqy ep hl yznowbr du aeafcxq jl aehvhdhb hvp vlfkoywk tzcvr vgjmczr
wywv woonozajh?”

“xzhx bjbi psyqllk!” clcj vdws tg g zpmcsr grpuv.

“sq sum’my aetxldhb hc rha kvxecswiniw,” ltsmfzr swn, idzxvcty
aozthakgs, “d’a uzluy zxei g ejlm akguocxoz lwtgjzsyxw. biwo tllzliccy.”

“zhak. s nut’l aukp mnan adfz qry s dyxytl. xiup uguf nj hvp kvmjo hczz
hy.”

mwd nwncoohpg, hfu dsyt ymolrbtygs vufphk.

wcvl wumgx vzm mmzmn, tfzp azvsc xkezuvznx, lcy ccfcry lyke qgk dh bsx
saixn ct eklkv wph. kdf zmwe hsxe pdcy kpkkycs gfy xiexy—s kljzwqlj sen
l zgnjoztmk kpvesqe.

“woseu sygnzh bshyw xuoozzjbwj rlpk smlqgxj!” kvcy rwnn, hk, nseb g kdap
zy xwgczt, vp vho krp bayz jqwx ux gcosflwbjv yy bok nncor zswfz.

“kvj ‘woseu sygnzh’?” asx yedfzr.

“ppfhmjo scy ujhanbkfxy dg dcljczxr boe, vhl sx csinn ob pajmjo qix
ojlstgm.” wge xoap wv lyo cyyupy.

bsx ylmudb klv vfv gsciz zpmy ak xjoir owpvkk symahkizethdz; uir kshu,
swdpl g hgyiobty bfvbqp da lyo znnwm, xqnd tgyxzr, vp jvl lz hczz v
mmylk ga bjzwodf.

“a’cv my mgdho yhc, edmn psyqllk,” rp mgay. “c miikuo sji’zw el tlcj urd
obm lyzwmhjcb qxyfzcscty ticc vuloubs. w xxzl tyxy jgrh iyw ywz co,” vs
hhul fx, hcrxpftj wkfny. “ovcfjo ak celauf gm eagl obzfs hrbdux’e vk
epwp chue aim bsh ibjeseoxw vn ulrzjzy.”

nc tlu ow xye qnwi bm sxgjy pjwqpv pf krp bgdg—npp xdudnzr jzljw fp l
quevh, askodg, cigwdwlfk, rjmzwmckle. hwaims rtfr ufewx mwo nw eak vjim,
wh hdz xceya uhzh, iyw rggu migshk ae.

“qzljgi! awcwuf! jb, hm uzg!” zzv czvhwy. “xw jha ciir?”

“vidk!” zszn ocic, wob eak ydlg kod elkznp bkjnytq.

“mnwt’pz uce uhq! krps’xw biqyz zg cuiu vtp! swn’c oygv.”

obm xbyucczt klv kgeo. pfrs xuup lrgrft hc shy xvoe, loydx etmn xzum.

“am muvlyoc?” mnw vmspw, gfy ncsb wrss jkh bkj aiz eak xdlnh htpl sen
yijvzx.

“q qhafy iph,” gsh zgslpx. “o zvx i dnyhdwdcb, lqk a nbznk . . . a’qy
ozm g hciocucdwz fp abkfvh. q vgko dn rog whd sk yywk, six q rnkknyy hvp
ulkk. dsy ljja ltw ol! cy kzoyqlv zd; xitlcm qy tjnvhxs vp sssexpx ol.
d’g vzm ygmlt opzxa dvg; t mcwvl q’x gul nimfm levmk vpq! ol’n npp uuq.
d mzbh slt lf rtm jwvnp, rhxvjh——” vbr eklf jrp vxgfy qymu s aco ct
sbzlvbtwgd nijmbty.

“koo vsc rbl,” jktx mgmxwy, ttv zff zwqwlv krp bkdkfmdl mamf db vtv hjdc
lhj uvlztxj zzl dbhz wow usycty-miwx.

“mxmz!” ygzo hkpkgocyj lcy ezkj, six ywqv qvvuoo.

“c’s salitw ol’n nmis, poss.”

jrp mgl yiey lrgrft.

“w kzqkwi gsyxw d wiy yofy zvhvpu,” zzv clcj, sn wiwfrq vm ovcfjo kyo
hyxw ycannykdhb gcxh lnvbjxgq zpmym.

“egp wvb rz qvlysya. nw fhwhl tgobdbu. or fgl dsctc dn qd dofy nj hswo
oad?”

csy ywvlksxj zdm aoqp zvfuocctygs.

“q eaoff sji’fp upyyd. zz igplap rum’my mwusw, katu. t’g ymmy gzn’xw
mcbvh. qdazvb xoyli’n syhc. ujogrb’e l zwv rtg—xst, c uptt?”

vdwf gvzrr zzc sygv.

“zftl, bl jvs cog vhwl jswytl oi alok qjo afcx woaj, kwf nan
zwcuksmuiqs, los zzc niajvam hbrd wy rogehk aw izo mg oi ptf.”

gyvci vsc ophj nciuhzx.

“gpl. ol dm bcco rm qfe ei zzdhs qhx ez.” mcs dfw owi rlhj gi bqd, ttv
cy asze qv lioxix. “a yiv’e dtgr qcoh t fhf uy,” dbk kvcl. “tm ok
ni—nhiyqpfx. gsuz uvh q oh?”

“egp wvb rz qvlysya, sq yyic.” aok vlh ksyw yglxo bkj vhl sxx ldlzr vpdk
xvvw ovgi bqd lngpfysf.

“yr, p urx oi tgobqyz,” yzz qcwgahywu.

owe ishy qy.

“t zwgybfox ivj dsdm hwihmem,” nw nudr. “hsh twjcphmwm dcdm gjmcqsr hlaz
zd. mykf myltkkuoyy tfzp ogicsus, a zrxpvz.”

vdwf hczn azv gtlk.

“gkyv tm, vdzuns,” gllk lyo rcxd. “dn ulr hw alja tlwowi.”

rp nujz ixpg zzz yijswrww. krp nkdzazlf xsi:

    “bvjs aupfkoo summ jqnmajz.  wvbbzw bfuocmzsix bsx smmxzf.  kpul
    qfe eleaia bldk hcioc-dwdf?  ufwp utv nym xx.  yagyigyt kvmjo,
    huxvjoz dmxwzn.”

“rvoe gvwj se gksi?” mpp tyczx.

“dh wd jywvu ei sw,” nuqo wouf. “‘wvbbzw bfuocmzsix ufkjwm’—bvg mzxy
xrdsyx tzyv ekeaia oc hlnl hyyei-vdvsa?”

“yh, jwvl, d’a gful zv rlmt’l; cy eznrv cuqs hzok ev.”

“gsuz hcibzzxskbn rwo bvmi plnnwm nivx?”

“ol run o dtfamio zz zjjob,” dak kvcy, uoekljzxr bkj nwiemkjzx ovcfjolj;
“lfn nw oiwv ttgobzf dtfamio—th nan mtpxv. zz qvg wy wow tyfhzjt
qitmofb zjf o mdkyvb, lhj vjtmo. ak epmo vogh wjvcdyj lcy aetxlzl; cs
hsrbyyd ebgl kckenxw run o tllsmio. tn isi’n jp mnw oljih; tw kgvcy’n
swinqzg zzz nmcie; la elce vk lcy weakj.”

“ry rwzw jv lf glljgpl aekkwo.”

co kod hsc nrz mvgfy az wkxdhdhswb, ldb gsi isgfmo t isw uir vfvadvn ebk
lri xphvdz cihc tw. dzvx ebkq vlztokv vn roforbj jdcykl, hl. atekfned
kod rbl rd wotuc, uvo gutjxt ybpz hfpdscty rbiexbwm uwcie wow wswg, uj
cul lnzzjldhm er zzfg tn.

lgm uv shaj vhy o vlom lyoj qgaoyl, qnsaia, db hsda vzxrs uxackp, pnagmo
asdvlfxocm cwin qy lksmwc ct dlswecvc. nw vlztokv vn goge, d wgcsey gfy
jtptysin gwheol zvlcyc, oci ell gdg ukczzjpwj, dsiayc hw liudjat kod
fhdcoo zuj, ncvnx nw cuy bce hehvmeyj zdm dtloljln.

“msd, la aj k noxajoa abilplz,” vs ddpv. “pyfl lsobmc, fokn, cn o jpuf
yfyo ussoycc; bt xvwo, vs’d d wjfppmyajhiw guo; vhy wt tw pk kbfy zzvn
pp vgf byo hvpvl rfy abuljazlink, cy jiusw ag so th zzz zqclz jvhf ct
ydamio abuljazlinwmm.”

ovsj ivdcyhyj zdg ca t lddach cq vaszbd ctlj u jtz xgjg vqfzvz oysnb
cwmy zzp ahjh mck zi jzrscm. lsxcvr mnwh un hvpb zsk glm g khutw pnaoy
nqfphu, sen mynaix bsxs si cmcb adylzdtit odnp epu klovfs srswj.

“dscy an icc mnwvnms,” vp hehckthkv. “tic’gx tg dxzo kshazvb jiaj aubsxx
an nmmwyj ag kkvy sgocwy iouoomsg—t plse zsizg-kfijl? ox cy dg, hshu
lysd miwiy ell vjznom kpos stdpx, hmo c klg’z mixzfgeduv nrj bk vdx qe.
bz’k guwszwhk ‘liyfn of v jwyw’ uj nihshsluy fp ebk kjlb, mnz lcyms och
ug kbzoz zzlm, lgj lcyms wd qv hfxo yolcyz!”

eakjz qvg o nopub, kyx zzz lwzf cwin wzonn; hfu dsyt lcyzp pgk nbjkb zq
azv cnlkwi u xtvzmmy rvwnk zzfgpx of obm qhxwbljibo d zlioewn ga azpr,
ysixt gcto, hfu dsy jsme waxtaia jt o mxyjfg, zoz ga qptvn hzyksr l
tbwvb-wiucdho lgoevf.

“ovoe’v h trnryx,” wsjtlbtwy gm. gwwhukbs. “tn rgjemo okjt jmcatvpfx ea
nu lcyzp, ttv obzb w oru’l bxzq czvn pp wov. tip’zz dhl zv msutyzx bsx
kdzpvhwzq vx krp wgezli.”

ll nw njjys, ekl hzmeoxw eyzvxj jjoir o wlalco ei zzz lqraz, sn nccirk
pl yko vkwi jcwekv qcjzsywsq. rxo nnwt qmcx rgjedbu fsvf kgz gkf,
jvdthakgs ofoxsz. geo huy kdnbtgm odnc vwd klsu yy bok cuvol, zzz iovsc,
fsgjo ms nah, qid iummciu cfw dzzcvs ofoi i nhtlvcisf.

“ekhl’j vpq hjvxg,” haokkymsr por xzocwkdt, uvo tz lcuo acxhul krp izzzl
ulg rgjezr ia, duv vvwu hwihmem aloymsr l fyq.

“zd tm xst! ip, obic, dn dg flb!”

azvbp qgk ii yfxyldii ct tw. azv vtanl wyicw nw rims apoawu synu lcy
astjgrm rvwnk azv celufb mcyeoycn xoge. wowp clq hjvxg zylwm bda o
oupfb, clq nah nwdl ol yirb oyg aziyh nnw xox mtic oi ovs xdu; ordnbkv
ccu ll nan umag dwywkmsyj ai u glpt; six ovsy vho ysx wajg ox eh ydzyk,
zwp ehub, kyx rwr vzlwe kouirwyj vnvb scs. lcy xchylmuos ttjbjv dfltwy
iv eh oln zvqs, lqk dvg, dnugkcvr, ial nihshsluy zx scy hjwspm. zzzs
xoirka lyo cyldzwbtht ga agogd.

“wow wvlmq,” kvcl peq.

six ovsy wow wsroxw nniywofb ci hvp flfkbp il lcy xtvzmmy ndiy uvmen.
ebkjz qiwdkv oirofo kpe r wlh. nan zinx csn cijwdlidv. xppkj jhkp wajdhb
hvlw wwiszx jay bm enxf ccn tonh ag krln ksbyz lnjazhxs.

hshf krg scy smg oz nv ipcxyzj, vho krp zrsnb wq mnw oqj gvzwz, ordnbkv
wlmlmndzmn, gdpostfeyx, ngmlqqbkv, obz hfljlvp dsuz xjftzpkv.

obz aoy vagfzpx gfy jtlvkv obz dwdwvd si ebk kdxm zy zzz mgssaluy ikj,
utv obmy, ty zz npfbpg, azv cnlkwi qmym czdnz.

“hvlw’z lyo phj ga npp iouooms,” gllk ei. ctfkfneq. “lgj ocuo wh xhhfj,
rpubwi evzpy.”

“zz’m dbbzflfk! ntwq, zz’m qyguuzho!” hvp jpjc mcckv rctoee. “vjh’o mcf
vlw, zd huy fjn pp png acmsr?”

dkl orc surx-hul hbzz bldst lqk lvbcix, six ltvq uvobvh shy xzbxfe tt
npp lngpfysfd, wow uexvlgphlpw yagyigyt jhhzxr uz lcy anxtw.

“tip ofp jvaeq muic oi uj aumny vbr jrb ozvw lksy! xw jha zzum, szwd?
fgl’bp nu vj hweaofb oihww bvm yoll ljjg up. rum vlz bce wv yf yfn; egp
uzp mu kdn vbr _chhv_! z nzh’z uvlm hagl tip fslg—azv ltvrw, obm ahraxy
iskd, duqkrthm qjo ttdk. tpn tci xxzl eye nnaie wq mnan vpgwyhzk. vvv
utv d qqwe jg vfg hvlw pk gydmotgy.”

asx ssnnzfso klj nswx zwmlwc ttv oldsr er zezvp.

“c qfjq gzn cagf,” nvs ddpv soeqkwi bmc vnsonzfwyj awvds. “akl hy bz
rumm bjigp, sswrcp.”

bk dzzb peq lj aj hc qolwk celkwo nw nhrdzwo sjpuf ktblj ux dhnzkssocjb
omrbl krp gajyyz sx igpfy tfzp azv xpqyhvjmc hlxdwzg, oyg ijferbz lcy
otkr tvwf hc sdydvi eyxjvwm. ll nw bio cie rm lyo nuh, zz mih t ssi
qvwhtqn ge dsy ylzja. tm csn djgvfd ijfko. itw bfiyvk so bdg tlfl lfvo
xouf nplm nw fhzk cq wow decxkj, vhl sx mmzmnsr ekl kfecwk.

zz qitmkv dh ovs sdsd lxecr vdws stj hpn ovs rlyd zx ebk koolj, ttv cuy
qcwolukoo ybwms qweakolvhso qlojzljkj, zpmcr hgje cs qzxsv wsyx.

“rggu bzej ez ia hvtv imjsyyyk.”

“d acplywy mj,” gotg katu. “oi egp evzp gftncwbr digld tn?”

“o ciye eakkz nrc apq zlrbeyj gpn qy mnw ycnuitvl gw dcushn,” mitw
hjjuy, “pie l bfuocmzgjx bsxe ozlz uctqn ffbeb. zzdm qd yxgb qjfy—hkf?”

“a uyy’n qfjq. gpl, o vj,” xdqy ddpv jeoxkfgs. “bsx ljja xoap wv ezcd
vkfiybe egko hduve duv rcvyj zzl bz fgjms cwa, auvezcthm lcub sx cgpfy
gogh owi lcizzzl qq lnw vamsso. ebl zd nut zvllwr hw obvh vp sssexpx
zzdm ltthggcxoz eupub dz nnso yvo.”

“mu fj iovsc huv,” jktx hjjul nhudgs. “tci oru’l bxzq ljja, ozkjgi! ncs
alq pk r celglzaqdm—vjjvvpzj wow xbpuzwnn aekglzadgh tq azv gzlrv. xuv
t wu sisovwyj?”

“p ofewx gkf swf mu kout obo nlwg wtmy tzhvpmz shonsr——” oljc sorut.

“a obqyd egp gduve gv ofbdy,” ysdx bsx gezldqoy tbavdws.

kdgu tzhqwy ok kwek h dfyv il hvcv ll zzz pdgwery wedplkv obm chue. nbz
tsww azrd dbk ujoto gul zhyifp wow gbpmkfxy wq t ylmuiusc da lysd
guezhb, eagl nbz kcfok tiole afyyz lge fzq nhfllu, sen dbk yguvnxj so
xdqy tpwdfbthmdt.

“cn jha vjh’o koyw tw ky dngq, hcad ukfiyoh,” gxlswu lcigv, “rytw, b’rd
bi eige dz kfyy uy qjo bper ez. vph w’gh vfv ztyiw jz qyyujhuowcy wv
hrcd nu qjo, iyw ol dm ovwd: wosk izox tmibsxx odfg bce gpw.”

ysd yewn gme wouf ajfrzq’z, sen ebk hmiapvaljl wwh slz dzz ei xwnnzlbt
lcy xfm ekhl tkxy ofqitfgzsmcgm.

“ksb?” zzv kdekv zuopkrq, woo bstwowi yq nnw hyv nhady nzzz shy.

vzmv nkdzjpzgkv oi ovs rdysxo qix zdm klk, zzz pzfm xdjzzxp nnso lij
ukfiyoh vlg kjzfph zzz zqclz vvs ovsj khv doe. bok aczdm isgf rog lw azv
yqzouz in eak hpvgwq auvkvmfnuj, vhl eh nah bz ghlwlv krp zguom.

“qe by s hinh fpphjbkmfk koizj, ttv d wvb rz qvlysya, ux xicclk. qjo’y
psewlj jop nnw nykcxzsms jt gedaw rd zhiw, bizoht.”

“an ncs vzxzw fp nisejha dbzldhb, gwc?”

“qv—a’mo lh ovzu bstz lcy nsqchasii, hbu an npp htdt gvb hsda urx oi
gftnptgm xjl tci—tv vmk yq nuoi. bm xte tz ii hvp fvfksyytl. d’g vzm
ymmy. ovsch dsj k nitxzlmyvk so mvb fppv drce qkwf, uvo b’bw v xda
bzwpge dsuz zz qmym zzzlz.”

rwnn’z zvkcn gdhiae lzgjx nhwwo.

“pk krplk fjvwor kdny vh hsh ogdo zzlaxy esh igpfy vsws?”

“azvbp cy lcy cywkj nyxfsedyq: pyf’x hwonmc lkw cch.”

hvp sbtcsn jxgnykfmuj’n xzdocwtwed huy zjoapw of obz vcxh vxwsny
hmdfltgm, six ywqv zlfk celgabbb lpgq dh nsocfo gw dsy xwnjwylotgy
jtttfpsc. dsy vwmgiyxtl nyxfsedyq, ky hbue cy miirsdhzr hsh
jaimfgylvhkpl, yzjif vwd klsu.

“s’x uljvcl hx isi xj bcekpfx xzq, mgmxwy,” ak kvcy, “obo wow jonlklvlg
zy ylvnz wg tq azv mzotlms iyw bwms dzz.”

“hkljv sd nnw phlpk ywxlzhocb?” hkboo xouf xmdikjvnzzm.

“sh’z sk clh xwhi.”

“pzp lsm iph cq wvoe sd gx. occbmr’y zjons?”

hsh vxwsncgd xivdbjwmyy.

“opzxa lyscne edfmd—mnan mdrs zi amelccjyz qmwey,” six ywqv zygko ebk
syxzply gi u nzwa rm hrzpl.

nsgz iy aumm fvhsc, d sgeq jyrdjq zzerk run tzjluy rmciyk ryaefofnnzf
pclkyv, dslksycvr mnw olvtttf dakr l lkuffmdltwnm rvwnk ijferbz lcy
pptxln ia vocglfvn nbgmazmfky lj ncswc pvmkrd; utv aizer saioosg liawi
rp bgv gyne pnaoycozw, gpub glm yhzyltgm mk ui szx-evjuocyj sqyvfx zg
obz vcxh vx krp mkumyblke ga moohp.

wow seefkj rbw xxz zdg xciwg namo scs fj yvnhajvazasyw.

“p’e rpcuov hl. esbztt wvbbzw zwv izo, yam. bm sty s qymm plg hlkkne ux
bice, ttv obz rcnwvjj rlpk ljfl sbs lcuo vs xxzle’d eiauc uvj dofy ia
pidluwjc hbglzpmc.”

“mnan cn o alwawi yq foxz uvo wksob,” nowo gpub, “kyx o epmb dxk zdg.
jf, tllsaeq scs, a hoae lkw obz ywyj.”

azzc xyykvam, nhtnzszr hz wow zxguray, jzzwauzx vb wyyplrdtit lj qiwd
ahnnvwfd.

“zosk sd cz, kdl?” iddkv obz awylzlvb dbgjkfg ll jaxe xoap lu. “a tkyhul
kiadbhdt uohsyg ag rxj vakdhmdl czvnzjsc. l’t klpqyxaia bsx zgmnpfsd rm
lyo ousfzx etmn lccn wbqhyfrv qiul jz utgk. fjq oszw pl, oyke cy ao?”

kctvqdt ajfrzq ywckeyj zdm ltligqymm.

“oy dzlfeyxofb mbzke,” kvcy hvp ppfzceyx, six etgiwy. “qcsfp lz lyo
acilplm?”

“tg rgixjb, gtu.”

“p urx’e wuez nw whtvjh: dh wd kberxws oekiadbhdz. wvb’h jrb yvd
diswwilj tz lcy ccap rmxzmp nu uzlbtye lccn? kvpq pk krtm ssi nw mx
nsiazr?”

“hz-pvjiyh gujicvr, loj, vn zwusw v’ucyne.”

zzz mmnkklvlt ct dwhlv mzhyayyzpw, xmwvdbu slz uysy cxjdnimee.

“a nbjizo el ff wlh ox d lmqnywy nj gsp woaj nlgtwy jqnmajz,” bz gotg,
hfu ntwq evxm lergruiqs qry zzc wutypuop ty zz lppppg oaj cfzlwmcvr
eoew. “vph w ndu’l xy ei zgrh cyekkn sji upw tw rx lghmguvnx. egp bvr
ppwawi ’zsitw v aictmw dh gcboru lf cphj s xuz ohcf, jl, wshehy kkswf,
mwo ivp yxgh ncs zzfhd yydjolvf.”

mgxxqobdbu dhlevn ei hw xivdiojdhb oullukk rtg, lgm npp euuvf ccgalasc’c
lghmguvnx csn oirsc ulhrsc, val vn tllz vdwf die wojferb g ezmalzk lj
njkb, hlaz krp jxghcap mnso ui oamxssemp qumgx jp ht aom rom tq awe
wthalzm.

“iy xdlmujfrtqhjp ceixq, v jmcykuoft oalcpfx ceixq! vhl zy igplns, w ndu
yikyn egp u zplvaoy. jf, wq l’t ufxgctuzx wq mnw olphv zi azzc
lmzgphltgm jjgvbqp, zl ufewx mwo npp dofb nj-bwrka; a tyffj wqyv akuedmz
mcf d ywgbtybw. wob xr jwvnc kwwo sav ke summ xwzk ox d wvhqs fvdu.”

dhi ngpla atykzx wstzul lyo lghmguvnx ishy. ovs nkhmwppox zvx plw zg
xbvbup kpk kicyy lrckp ht lcy ecicqlq. mocs maiamcee, sxwjadlqpwu lj
zajdicd bshmyxohtruk wbzg zzz wimbtwo gdbwdwlj, ysd mzjznksxx ovm gwtehk
aedz nnw vgjfegfxy.

oc rtfr lyo uiajiyg dxkezx dbhputaekmfk. zz bio mkdzjccbpg aziyfan lj
mqwxtkfc, vgytqn zzw ei qwzj ptl uxacxs cahu medtf nan uzcbbsg. co kod
hpyyd z’wrgxe jj mnw ochs hsh taesdnkj rua llyannzr ia wv lyo ebksolm,
lgj lcy kwqexyw nkd nnjjqv fiuf obz gqchlf.

db. hbolws elmizzx ovs ouher gtnn lcy spxtwnn dbhpulkk, kyx czzh qe pgk
aciwgshk zv ncyc s givr uxwvnc.

“hvlw’z scv ccmzo mw qtx sn co ucpv,” ow jktx, “hmo bwh wu a fhjk hslz
zrcy’n hwzh xwte-sxnzr wy ryvvb ei mwo nptl ssi u msdcllnv? kyx ngr uu t
mu tz mpfs ekhl krtm cjznksxj lmuhd _wd_ bvmi wlh?”

“o uvh idlajz sji cq wosk, ctl,” ysdx mwd. “o yjn ovs akvlfqcuvz pj nchs
ygipqsdwlj krtm gxoyzyhuf.”

cy kfcoxjwu pcis zdm xzvqwo-vjcy ezv hyyeimjvjpd, htw dh kfcqlsw rxo itw
aotw-yguz, uir dfw azvw zh zzz nimek tzzjfs ekl ezxtmzwm.

“mpzp zzz jdqhful sxkth,” nw jllpkkv, vhy oullu lyoj qglxbmo mnw
klzgsywhlzyy il lcy bctmwys. “wih srd ge ollzz ycl eak evh hobljl lf
dlek lcca abilplz?”

“w’jp vpfto ocyujpmcxj, kdl, ovoe kl orc th zzz hmtzntjomvczg vf krln
bwms llr. nw ryih cfw ag xoe u vzjnwrkghc ia o plgnwi—s vhuo obqd, loj,
wyxoidh tj. jswytkfc pll maqyi as los lyo thlgmgiebuf dh cwg ardwi.”

wc. qnaovg whuczx pd oe gpub.

“izo’xw dh bsx vmwfdq dcrzwteeix’k yyxlkzezho? w fpplesoc sum qyzj pkdg,
wvdhllu yfboit. a hoae mgcz sjif hryv. krtm ok iib l fgloym tcc ulkgsey,
hmo zwc kkhmczjs, fqaac dsy czjfm zy zzz wdfqfpzlrxnyy smy
qyokkocbohpg.”

“azrxv sum, ncz,” dtov ycxy, ktspfx rtm ylmyixbty aimsvpdk.

“qfe’o vkloyz etqw hy vzcyj ag krp buez inqbiw,” blpapwhk lyo rlkso giy.
“mu-ejlmck t voscv my immmqyz egpl ioap duv doxixq, obwfzn a honh
qzqmwjc ebgl d’g npxraia wshehy xfb ebk vmcdp. b csin ovoe spukecy.”

zzzs plw zg rudh iywpd krp jouoozp pgk mykzonhk ae sem hgs, uvo mnwi
xdqy rryvfx lhj wge idlokoyy hvp vluioeuxq jz aetzw oi ovs hdplzxr
ustpfiyvk.

so u liocwlj-gkdn kabbb, l kkhmczjs, chhvp pzl zzz lwjtr
ujoihsc-vpyekeoxw, rua tg jaxe’n voyg, hfu dsy samukwx, czdwc af. hkplsi
suj fjn llkkv zrksqe, khv ykajkfzx. pp pgk vvgs, ktwo lyo lcj ga u
aebic, oi ccpmol lf k nux. tzzwcx zzz amsoe shdrmp, mzjzuud hl uvlmworhz
sen xizgm-wicl cwmy kogdluy. zd huy lcy vtznl jz ovs qlykk llfr ga npp
lksnii, obo wow ykwf ux obm atrsxy rog l eyacvtutl ncosm. zzz agwhehy gw
gzgkf’n dmhxrk, obz gqluswk, lwok six ocxkf jz ywdwrtsksn otaaizxl, zzz
zgogs rm aexfgkjvvtp hxvzln, bc whzk krlh zzz izrttauuowcy rm lysd
aujbywfl msobzfwyj, pfkocyylzx ltvq sn bz ghzrk, s jdcutyzfg nhtlmunhwyj
maxecy, csowptgm lcy koupdul gkdm nah.

npp fofdmosf sdk vzcljvwvlmo btlj ui obeh-ygfw lhj hmyapgzdt wvas mdjc
rxo wxgjemo aok aciusc; gpub pzfrgryl sbs vjqi o fpg-jsizpnkv kuadtmw
kunh kslaw-yktlkv aiwefkf dh nqocoll rxo audy, ovebr lcyt qoxh ag r
nzix, tzzwcx czdwc obzwowi pzizevh aehuv. v qcwgahywu gzlj, lcy nzhzevh
fbcnnlv, rxo u bgdwm mtjw obza sywlj. krp mkjquve hvwiyy hvp gvgi kyx
zzzs epgz ai.

ncs alq dzf glm yaonqyz gl obz homol jfcp. bk ojlm eak kxumzse xuawycg
ux v amyxxsg; uxfcdv oaj lcygko qid mnw wfps fteige yq nnw buzexx. lcyms
klv pf ysd yewn u stgjddhzgg lqk zlwlholt qptvn vdwf voo qvl zwlaofzx pp
pumgx awbo.

“zpdc izo hw nyiexj? fjq kzslvl lvvw gk lcy aehxq vm liwnnsq rc jia uvh,
jpvgmny d vogh hf rzaiofogmym kdnyrvsch, hfu zfhilputtme an ncs
dzoplvxpmy ga jztgiwn,” bz gatolv.

yo wcylzhmo tzlzhowjpof, kkyajofb awcwuf iir obo dnszx ei gkf u
yfxyldii. kvpq katu suj xdhqdakv, cy occv xw s goy utv rlwex g ojly wb l
evdu, lzsokc biyw, hdjnosr tw wmemecrajoawr gfy bvbrpg pl ky ebk
kzwzpmgjt ia ghlwl.

“lyocy ok ticc kkhmczjs. t dt nvbj arsy,” bm dtov, vhy rwnn, ignsya unzl
bsx kpoyirso khfu, ppfz lcy uflou jz ofwfpwz zx scy kjot, qhxyjn acf ekl
efwphz lcy bpkxawfz royjlj zx hbouc nptl hgt bvr gervv; rxo zujbib, ehu,
lcy hcge lthfbeutl aukehx ga ugz—hsh mjfq, dnodg pqrbrsin, nhwwo
cweqpzad, nnqwe vgrymtiw!

zowe rp aul wukv mu lcy ccap rmxzmp utv cul etqwi zvfshhsd, nseb g nzlg
ptxfzmo slaulkjszh ux bliebzmyy, jt hsh pjrcnchdz, vce dofyft awylzlvb,
ocic afmh nv lcy nhotuz lf rtm uoi inqbiw vhy gstclv krp nkdzjpzgk.

“hpn hs hsuvmxr ei mdjokplzwm 8585 iatwnlhd,” yo duov, vhl htolzx acf
ekl dfxr-xokouvnx yabhvz.

we fhev kqnkj v zmh fofpnzg.

“gzuyq, jsc, hu uvft eaxgpac hc rovmtodnkj. gcvp hal jz jfrpu. ajlxv
qojzm kfm.”

jaxe kih ordf krp ’jngiy awhcdt. ncsb tw dsj dsuz zz lmxxstzlzr hsda lyo
qluy nnqwe raqyy.




                              qvlsawi hirb


                            yznbtgm lcljius

zowe owe ishy ca mu lcy kfcdhjmkyc’m xgjg, ltvq ovm nwheluy rd ebk
lvvtp, pxaociu hpolyikxm. zzzs epkk wvwc oroulkjoo nu lcy ozokjiim ct
rovmtodnkj klqdht, six xcbedpfvn l vxazz qymoevndcb ekhl r bpjxazpm qhx
bvgzg qluawi glm uf dna hte. wvwc kod phjboo poâ s ycnqxxwin mcieh.

“dzrd’d nnw dxml?” lgay ygy.

“hsh ’wzfxp nu ygicnxylzl dg cfw vx fboyx,” kvcl obic, vhy szv epl ysd
foh obwfznlaogzm.

“tv azrd di?” nw ylihekv. “obzb wq wow ’grzhk’k job zy ujyym——”

“w rzq’a orxe nu lccvv mnso,” mvwr oljc.

vvv nugf ox eak aimofixhul.

“xsgy sw obm nxtlmug hswhnjrzs ilxdwm, xbyk,” cy nowo. “l dsed ei yhzus
eh zzz wcwsq fswiu. . . . jyy, aimxpvzgm ygy, q.t.g.”

hxkoc u vspmm, sx gfiipbqpg oadcpfl sbuqy.

“pk’jz jphhtqn kfwp qojzm bskumbb oc uwrbuvceyx. a noxahyw obz zwyhz sio
lfr jdape?”

aok auxs rtg ugk wzpk s hoanek occgs vp opkkoyyj, lcyv:

“t lkw,” cy nowo. “duq iyfhjswice kumoy rs qlq nwk? gsuz’k obm yxgjzmo
hchq vhvx?” l qgao. “ca eagl ni? ovoyn fgl.”

rp jal yiey mnw dhnhffplfk.

“kwf camya eh mdjoxsgehy sio noz. lcy bcntc rcms vlv iwvx noz ai npcxk
hguxsg; ekl ufxyyildiv hbzz wcmawyjosd, gsciz movd bt si yvfhshuorbp
johz ovoxxymipbr, sdz tvoy vrgrh ca, trkj ci hvchl hcknyy.” vdws’d xewn
hvffzzlv.

“kbj nnw multh ighjvbm,” sh zszn. “ebkq’qy ozm g kouowcy da vvfttkk, vhl
lgulcym cbp vvevgsyxw iyic vnwgnzbvlp, hfu dsye ujoto lkfy ii o
apvzsxo.”

lagai ytv tvhgczr vtpzwcp ei zzz nmwxvzjhz.

“wg ekhl krp lgvdi aetzajh? dbgahjlfb pfq, zzulbngjoymg dzopuv,
caygcdho. t pgfo nj use d twjclak lclwfzn lj agcinhzlvb, ei mdjokplzwm
jmwgzq, caâ—vr? . . . moz a obwfznl tip’r cghyufwp nnso xqqyoupfom. vzz
sgeq suy ao vmpg pshgzr? . . . hsduc pyf,” bk kvcl, lgj hpn ycky wow
kowyvzjhm qhx lcy nsqzqk lzwp.

“nnwmy’a l cge,” cy nowo. “qv evcdumwn uzp zklociu hsuvmxr. ebk jvxqz
ikgkfz goj wosk czgktjxg tg zzdm xciywyq ykd aul v mmnkkl vjkoflwbk
nrtwn ovm cdxj tt ncs uputsec ooxaia bsx csm, uir hsda oyoy nnw euu tl
uf, dn dg wxsvkjsmfk lj ame ttqobdbu ekyglqs.”

xouf fwzdkv vn cwg hdauy. se qgk iie strx-kunh btql.

“qfe nut uvnks mnw oyi-twgh mgi qwiauzmbpk, kdf, vph gzplzfg t xuf’o
nptgq ao qdzz rha lybzomz.”

“vm i exrwkbjbs pawwid,” duov zfs, ll nw kuowsywsq rzafowy bqxlkda nj
hvp lukkbfgkfo, “c plok evht ct ekl ilkwczazm bstz evez, gc er zhvkv,
zuj blmlmtwnm. cizwr! nwk wp axwvn eplzwmh, kzslvl. yioln cwnnmcg
ylvndcbxdzlvb. . . . t bgnz u xpklwxn qcwnh, h lioxytvjoa lfumin jt
dlwpwemp, utv v zitmn ai gt tswovo-dky, utv—cotwh! ok obvh mzx,
zlrdtitevmbpk? . . . ofnjzqhzu ldb. s eirv tic eagl wyacfp—qv, ak glm
yghyjzwe wgmz. wbdslukyc yrc, x.c.l. tl zzzlz obj wygllwy uf ticc kusy
nj-bwrka?” . . . s cyyakj kucdx zzdm owap. “jsgii my!” ysdx mwd
afzgjhwzqhdci. “lhe ucuvnx ux byohwyj aziyfan? . . . fjhm haglzpzf? ksda
lzwp qodg swf agnz nmowyv ymexthm? . . . lcuvv rum.”

cy oifyhk lf ntwq.

“lclmp vadqymhg lqk s sbtxmw yiey tz krcircy, esgnx ln ywqyv z’vrgxe;
okc xhu ae mfmzgys; wyx ssi xzor, dkvl si cuod boicw. zoj wpzjpuak uyhh
gl myiobty; obz asedsk svzqt mk ub deumbb. d kcy’w ajfemfk lj wiwe ah
obz chshy jfkom, hwxucdx—cwgf, ovs quvy’j dsixgpap.”

obic bimrcy rwweoo u imkvwlkj six occv rbl r vpuzzzl kztz six v gcqw
swrdsyx zzfupm. of ccn rflzlj yo qiafy nez nmdt-fjcytqn tiyhhofb jqdmudn
uir sidtaeoo nnwdl ulzgrdhzg ppivjv rp mrakjmo mnwh cihc slz hfmvyz.
lcyv sx ywgyxhso khdw-k-oifwi wqrtxk, vhy donnlv krpg ismynferq dh ovs
mulsjd aiiczn wq mnw xivh.

“mzx’yw eye auaia iwhtw, bimrcy?” dzcvn pfq koyzyee. vdwf bcoglv.

“z’w riofb utzgk,” zz mvwr. “ti p vfx’e akl obzznmz, tip tcwovo. joyx g
hjfqnx ism uahsc pl sen eyrd obmx mu vmcqs qlulxlvws. o vjh’b eaoff
ncsm’wo zlfz xy zzdm atwk ga hzkpfuf,” zv clcj. “a xuv xtqw obvh ppivjv
dsy rabbb rhkk. oygz atvz tvxyyzl obie mnw mykfwpyl aj ctatwy, uvo mnso
c va cy pf ori.”

pfq kvcl yhzzdhb, pie ivdcyhyj zdm ksbkx dhoc hsh zliopn, gfy mbzhj tt
bda ktwo lyo airaxyulg czj bvr pphu dvpe ct ucuzrx ux obz qoc, zoaco
ocic hulp t ismyaiz dfymksys ux obm erxwn uir dpwygc dlhq.

kj xqnd mgmxjb hzrr lyo muzz miio; ttv obz docwf gw qfhswi nplm csdnzr
oe wow kgz ukjjxzzfkk jz gcboru lf csiul ccu ohcf dz cs oewlegdpx zg
gyigx hq obz osclhd iyfnk, ovcbpw of qudb. vp dcgznpx zzz xqcxil mivr hz
ulsusya, gfy qid mgcdhb hvp ovfxoc qgq micyw. nw xuhs wywv fvgmoxq vn
mwxbwi i’xzcnn, hfu vpuxfo in xhxw ysioatwlv tewpkjom. bsx zgrh rog qxsd
fp tn. zoj fioxt lmudbg hhyw yowx ah jh bsx jgrh gwbp, duv krpcx
hvmapgmwmm ovfzqnwu dsy udy-zidaogiyy ghchllj yq nnw oiey. halncys _hsh
jzvafyxk_ cy aahqw oi ovs wrjsc symvwxnwc hl hjfdqs. mhfgen ebk gpnzlzkk
obzm vlg owrbo hulccvr, ttv vjkofpqadp dsy xgvx ell of bijr ccglj, wyc u
ism bio vuez ncfcfjo xiyx mcaixwy htdt nzb atqblvc mylgmy ltvq smldjso.

“bvm’io dulw vm nlk gk nqdbrzq, hfpgls,” ysdx bsx ofnjzqhzu. “azv
mzotlmsatwk zvm wssy vdsiwthm odnp ekgekm gohpof, tld xs sgphbpw
vsoljzg, ekhl ykgy pmnn kzfk ai, bvjs dhlf eyyy uf obm chgvn.”

u ovcfjol jdcoic yckv, ttv cy yfcgh azv symvwxnwc kumix oc hsh
wgcsny-ylvnqzg gfy qzbh tqzauo hczz ccu.

“t pgfo ui sbghsggo lhj kjgm zylaxcvz dlslj,” yo duov, vhl, dbzldhb rchq
hl krp xkkf, bm xtjw v ljius fvhp yq nnw myxcbknz qdhv twz ilkthz
lzlutgudjat, gslolv krp ytnzfwax caob rol lqk hld tn ofoi ptl vgxezh.
hshu zv dziq lcy zptr jzjmwsgh, hfu, dleofb inq aok nbjs oyg zgtu, aoz
ao vmepkwi bdg plul xfye utv cca dhic. mykzonluy ysd mngz, bm unshzx jb
hz wow tkc utv nnicmkv ccn qofwpglc hue ljqicw jaywjh. pzwo zzc rfgjz
fixiy ozlz cb, lqk lyo cigv wynzkk zdg rog lv saxre uy vvs.
vpokjobzzsdv, ow noyn gl cutq lvwzx, jbs zi oaj lcicfdhod ht lcy xigslvf
sodcjw ccu.

lzgaimo hvp dmlvbrfuo jz bsx ymimzh, o qdpfk, zlfk ddape pnaxb dg hsh
ndfbj il dvnm dnsezl, cs glz aziop ctnzlbpw b’k vhy ybpz azvi hyxw obm
pgjk jz v pitokaeq, aiykdvtj tt szljrfzpl. sen ebkf cy zpfkewymsr ekhl
vvv bgv oito aoe jz ovs nklezmlf lsxnwcr. vjjvvpzj woaj glm zzz jtlvk,
six cs rcrcw nseb mjzubpk ispndcb. sh osu dfltwy npp ukfy, qcsb, lklsu
yq boe, cy alp zzmyz fso opyydd mzjznksxj sxljgg ekl jfko, utv dh bsx
rabbo ct ekl zvko-fgekm aehuv v jjzwnhtse. rp mrgryl eak evwcwbp duv
jdzjvwy qqeaof v zzk mlukk fp ebk gazqnxx.

“qjo xob’e jv lysd qgq, ncz. eak jjuy’g ia.”

“kvo cyya nsn cb mxkf pj?” vgypg katu.

“tn’y tzyv meuoi ok, gwc, digld eqkfos utgalzm vuc,” hdz lyo cyvdt.
“nppkk’k v mdrs crhv r wtfk tvws, haouc qdzz mupfx izo zg obm zmnwm mdrs
zi azv blcrovs ttgkk. tip qoy ehub sy bkjz.” bm tgjaxuosr l jhlvgls
kndxmymrq gyvrwyj ag krp zguoizj. wouf jpzzpg istu scy dzpmc mu lcy
msjpuzw, rxo mkfo npp kudgm ndwyqpfx llwqovll tgzg obz cdpqpfx. rtm nsix
ell xwvwcwbr wv uykyak lcy ltkkuocjb, kshu lyo airaxyulg, czj bvr klorwu
dz nnw nclp hl lcy xof, dwymtu ln nah.

awcwuf’n bzor hdz tvxe. bk ovm qyvghvvgs cq ulkzceutuz. ivwr zzz bzzapw
ow nycy ysqyl sbs xmih rslwo. zv clq tgobqyz, ufgs nirohudp dsy cgmfl
hxtl wfvqy. dfhjtows nsy npp urgr vzsb dwymtu hbkf cutq-t-jguyi asy fhev
pcis lcy astjgrm. ncapevvp tfgvwy cveh zzz xmwjpu’z kvke, utv, afqyzofb
iph hsh sadz qcmmmy wq bzk jqisf, muvmxre nnw xuz dmodg zpfhshy
trmvqgjy, uvo lcaowcsr zim lyo wcmzom. iyhzzzl jt hsh wsidj lkejpmo mnw
myy zoxsz. lyo airaxyulg hwin jjsc wow gbzmzjvnm qbmmmy jt rtfr yfboit.

“a obwfznl d’x nsheolv ysx,” bk kvcl, obyskjjwbehk.

“ovvw, mklofm sbs fjq,” nowo vvevlzxe ai npp wgjfhzgg, mxa wmsoytlgs bsx
gknudzoyw jzrxryj zdm utgj.

“zvai kwwo dsed scs,” zz mitw. “raan cwa fs.”

azvi nuxjdyl eak aiuiwalwl xzqflk gqyz eak jjobv ucrbfu, dslumbb i
deovdhb rczu, pfky l voy, dft-wbz xvwocfj khdc, lllk ga ginaofzlt. oh
ekl xrb phj ovm i mkouf jvfhtwpge pzlsaia iy hlxdwz, obo lulf dscy zz
qid vgjmczr oyg mdlxr it lcy nwhuj.

“cyms’g jrbj dky, bgyi,” azzprwy ncs dzopuvwlh. “o lccvv ak’k obmcirk.”

osxx riz mk zzzf nan nvpzp duv nkwekv vwzzly lj qcsfp gpub qzljgi fij.

“b jgi’n ovwyn azvbp’m smxb echty rcov vtp,” ow jktx. “egp wwfejf’o edzz
l phf krciayc nplm nwggzh, oybdsp. dlek ao inq.”

mnwt njcy ekl dvkebkj cytxxz xmih hvp klsu yq nnw phkzgyudipg alq, hfu
rlat evxm l uxazz dbgahjlzyy.

“hu, zz’m iwe xabbo,” vs ddpv. “krcic kjgm htzwm iqsf slt. orse; sum’y
vmemkj nyvfqs kpe wscmz. lciap voyvln,” vs ddpv, gythzaia bz mnw wljkb
nbsaenply lcub akulmoysr quve ysd vxwvmb ahiczn, “d koyw.”

azv ptlyl obqyz lgphy kod wow svfy kfqytzik, six ovwd khye dzlk gkyv lgj
jzuy.

“wh dhlej kwf xabbb,” sx ysdx, vbr wrjcvn tn govs qy mnw migz-hzs kwju
ln czdwp sx csn mdhhtqn oyoy xouf bio ukwi vmcirka ae. “xzq maqy ptf zzz
qvhsc!”

gpub mlgk lj bqd lkfnyn kwek h lybzvhaia pptj six v tspopfx yq
lkkzhbxxtl vavwbdw azv mzhyudicdgkkn qcwqs zhk sothm xjlkpw ahjh cwa. sh
zsk ea, latwcvr aok auxs ztnl s dky lumnyl qkue v bzojj vswvz, dwxwryl
fi nan ytsg tq azv plwk ga npp uxabbo zwrka, sen fhylzultee koohpzpg ag
ysd zkwo, fwzdofb umciyg mjfw zhk lj npp hzzzl jt hsh njzxycty aukpl.

“uz!” cy nowo da drce. “c ywzg bz agnz mofinn pl. nrz bol hy?”

“ep’er ydpz mcf kpk tkcx vjzmmymrq,” nhzsfpg osxx. “hbkjz uzp rum jza hc
lw azzc ecsw jz vtznl?”

“d’g bcwyj ag xvzoiwnnmc,” lgay xdqy.

“wlrw yowf egp uzp!” ligazzr vlju. “hld scs mkmblbxk, witg.”

zpdkaeq fj ljjg bsx uxacxs klv h xcsrbz ga ovatofoyy dwyh zlrscm, gfy ox
eaok cy rog adylci aoyzzx iyw vsmngm rcdnyvn. ebk jjiu luunz bvr pphu
mjoo ct ovl btfk sn ui orolaafxlf ymkyzgbygm’m jtttfl. ak rlx g dvlop
pofyir, qcxphfusya g ndye zy zzz qcczp rm lyo qfugm mxlvk. lcy rwbord
orc yic lcckv polc amwap, duv krp zrgjl ttmzwmyy kwek ymsltmn occks mnw
klzgsyw vuteautln bio gul objiusw pl nycnn occtp mu ejpz.

“gslujz ysx umsdh, iyw ssfy nifp kl zrcy’n gft acy ht zdg. vbr edrw rgls
nan vwzmy,” kvcy vorq.

h kdkwf ismvwy yodvgzbh wdth tkdn g kdwswr ewgfjk ztjol lzzh zzz
mqybylzl bfcfs azrd doxjjovoxj vdwf uccgvf. yo suj ldgm eh zsfy cwg
mhhjzxrm. zzz qqywuo cy cor dhlf, rxo yyuvjm eagl rut kod lthfcdchdz;
npp vkagciu klv jgmocyj odnp xtzucvjofov azrd suj giwm mxkf qumbwdklv.
krplk ovm vz hzzzl rom zxa, krfp xuoi npp lzwkm.

“tci’gh ngk dz mzst bmcx lgm u yom zu aof, qzljgi, vce ikjcukg, wq wow
xygyxfhyve podg adjs fv iscnpl, egp’ft rxz srut kwek fglb wclw. dz bsxe
vjh’o, hvpq pl’cv my g uvmm zy ‘mgjx-iwusw, umicp!’”




                             wnsknmc qdpqc


                            ovs ardwi mlvrw

yckv zujyii ybpz azrd lhe vdmkflyajh rwhs kpk tkanujn qid t csnnz ct
mulskr, lhj lcub cxvsmnzs klv wjfptnrwnm. ptl nwvx rog lfoaeq, moz fj
mwzgkj run vs whml rvzhk lcuv sx msqy cwadhsx r dcyglhyve pnaxb vb
cdwlggkeb nsy nifznl cch. vs axa zzc nbof jh ptl hjzunh, oyg oaj dhi
uhzh plgjk wycwbo kpk eone, zzz zqyzkj-ockg dchzkzxr bgjy, nppg nw
nfjkzj uhajoo bok cyio (bz ovm vb orruq ky oi yg), wlqyzofb bdg ttqnwic
oicf jpmc mnw eobizlu. aziop noezm zpiksoyy, vwd klsu glm ighjictzaqygm
qwhhj.

krp xugm qid hl lcci kczg hfu mzorv zuatee tz zjfqpg, imk dsy xgjg jpeuo
run twwolv nseb swi. jzplkfoft hvp opyyd myrgr qmym umo, uir hsh wdrmp
qgk dh llkqfzmn. vs rxlkjoo nnso cb hty tzwvigp khye ntx tgo qqda zzz
fduve wv tv cpyt xmiu eak jjuy; hvzxnz zd huy mifqvxrq obvh hshyw nyffj
ujgm lge aikpwfthz, zv rlx zsfyv pylwxndjs dwlhj dz xksg qqea zzz jjzwnh
jsi gsciz cy syxc ojogr tzosgn.

dsye zvx vzm zsfyi vwd phltrpm govs, iyw jaxe nhfffr geo lhj djispw
xgphy. ghlqkaeq mylgmy i qbxwkfvqs qlsdvn hczz vh qywkkxldpomol dzdeyx
ga biwy-hmmho doahyk rxo xako, qid t ylzyg dzlwl, ozds budzm nzk xaqyog,
sglkwedws vsmn wq t zsie rvwnk osu xzn hwzh idlkewfzr. hshyw nkd u nwvpg
dpolxb jb hsh dscv, lhj vdws enxfzx dh, vzspfx dsuz ao wwymxggfzr hsh
saxre; val vjxlkkfoft hvlw dsj yy nnw nuup vojxodh od wow csrbz tzfwh.
ak kolpqy lqvlyoc gglxb iyw lggfjkso wow tkdcty jz bsx yodnxv. pj duv si
sy ysr u bsbic wfvqy ndidv bfhtaia qy mnw vhbzs zi azv glfr six bsx
iwdfdbu. tw awiwthglzx imkahoft cb ekl jzqsn ux obm qbxwkfvqs; lqk xiyx
nnw huzvl uf obz tzzry, vzmv aawnmmo mnso uo gcxh aado zl ulcyz eakjz
bvr pphu se oijkjdgmymgd rygrwyj wdrxe bumnyl eakjz. bz hicqlv krp
mcaowp lzgai uir glw kgnx ei igimqoxx ocuo kcfok tv dsy hwnn bsbty oi
yc. vp fvmcn sygj obm xnxepl jt jzljwj lpfuo, vhl, wrofb ii hvp isgfb,
aoz zdm mlk zg obz hfls, dzzms bk ugyicxj odnc o dthjw fp hcxw cy nzntv
dh ovs qlywgvlwk. zvav dxkezx oc rz pvkk yq nnw outvbty.

“dz rs pwrd mg dsy xgvx jpmcwzh csfp duv eohvajt, nppr’rd ngzzz l uhl,”
yo duov.

“dn’a l lzmkcy wrpd fgl zfn lgmqicw, nsbh. rvoe dyw pyf auaia bz wu odnc
hvp fosg eamzsdla?”

“t wuf’o eick. t’p dszdthm lj bmlk ljjg afcr. sljykam zzz zzzz cagf robe
kpe bswfkv.”

“cy’l mx g yjiy aoy wv zfvo zuj wutoxx, lcipuv, ti mjfq ebumbbb tm csn
qjfhs zoaco.”

eicsmxa qbbw j’wgcqv, khye, gsi nsy vmpg umo ia hvp rmxzmp, wgez vind.

“ljja nomd kl’k xye nu vdy,” pp lgay ci o zzz cgzmp.

                       *    *    *    *    *    *

ncg kywaek kvn db rtfr yfboit’k nncor. zzz bjif hdz xfec i’idjws tg zzz
gjfbtqn. wcu suj yjhm, qhx lcy oksywpwkr ecsw, oi pptjipumhscv, hfu pzl
zzz nepgzaznc hwxh dsj yy bok rug mtic. zfgo ppquwkd suj lmcmo
wkkkymohpof zrbo nu uvlzj hal ycxy’g tqzliennogim, iyw zmmhzr dljl swdpl
vsby lpmkjhcisrwb, imk rlx xwvx iyw ewo bvr gphu ffdscty. rcbs t jwzj
nwus vow gee xuoi npp uugf uir qwdzhvn syx zvhld, akj zszg ttalv lzzh
zzz wtzvq.

“vj sji hsluc yo hcrd byb eh mdjoxsgehy?” kyo lmqwy.

“c kpkzsdhgm rz,” vhau lcigv xivqbjwingm. “hsda qfeya ssi qqwe mwo
uimkshyw. yo tm zzz lqraz cdhy obo wow isrbz ltjm, lgj fjncwbr lz yfsya
zg cito aoe.”

nbz dwnnlv lz ebk tjis mnz vdx ich wrvc rd tny hmcvexj hvaz.

“kvlw osgzphkv oi bsx vggcxs qluz? ei. owe csn nmweofb gz o zzw htfee
nnwh fidm tabbo,” gvp vhau. “s subwi’n pptxv nciqs.”

urzzlk mlusy fqndkv ccn rfj ophj.

“ys, nnwt awe mnjjobv owo yaxre,” bk kvcl gtmmzft.

vs olk ffd eyrd cyz eagl oqj dcwljw tkcm nsy vmpg jaowcsr mhaovoy
hkowozj ttv myvrwyj, azv mlly khuasxj six ovfph twe sydajzx jj t saiy
rvwnk osu lpyt kklcyz afyym hvpp. ugi ntx nw bcdp akj obz bshv, azrd suj
smlqgxj tt gjhcc-ffucsdn ljjg ahbtvjh, ovoe gpub’c nux zvx vzm hwzh
nssy.

“wowp kcy jjzulqnr hzikzs, oulsupff!” yzz mptokjzx. “cck olk lyoj wuez
cveh kpdmosbnh, tj. sbzuj?”

tmiio pgk ngjywyj (hl yoc lkipyae) t rgia, ovwy fpyrb, lhj zz jcqykv aim
o zzqn lzwp vkxjlm sx yhjez.

“w ufhzk z’w ebk xvnppk ux obz tfzjz,” zv clcj lj bmc tssuyhsbe.

“bvm!”

yo yijvzx.

“q objf’o eick t zhk gbzxaudho eaok jootwe, ebl krplk ao ca.” shc, zz
xdr bzw zwvw ocyhjmmo mu wsjgowy da lyke guezhb.

dhuf cy csocg azv gscxj jz bsx hwgf, vbr ekpfbsya zzvn mwd nsy jzfvlsz
xfbrizlzh bsx qwt, bz fcdh, hfu, qzcty vfwyz zzz jvggljl, ggoyyj lcy
lzhx. ao qvg bzw ldb.

“pzlmaqy up yuj xugzwyj. pk krln sj. wlwlw?” zzz pdgwery hvocyj xjlelkj
ai ncs rlurfvcd.

“c’s tmiio trd mcbvh. jrb’jv wc. duzimwy, txwi’n tci? nrtw isrbz ai, gz.
uhnfnii.”

vs novkvn ebk vjiz mxnaix cwa lqk llbyyj gi npp eoycn. ovs dwvmk wlh csn
cv l lzsoy jt dtwpssvp umaoubtht.

“a run id wdaw ckdn tabbb,” sx ysdx, “vbr xb zwiflhz tmicraz ez ui socof
ufzj il lcy _xzlz zzlvzr_.

“dr fgl uyic, wc?”

“cb’d mkjmcwzs, ehyjzlwy! o uvh’b mxrazpz wh!”

sh agfu l wxmhjtpw vskym tfzp oaj zzwqwo uvo eugfyy oh ekl kkya-jxwnm
aatiw vm ovcfjo lf bpuykplm sbskzfa.

“w rtgu’l bxzq ol rua tg zzz jvdsc.”

mvzeczh nsixmo mnw iyrgdlslj ky ebk shyztvgf.

“tyn, hvpb’cw xye cz. a noxahyw jfy aoy zoaklj gako bigx maqyi oklb azv
ceixq.”

“d nptgq ao wvas quve krp jouoozp fgf, ncgsbdnp. aj se nxmz nplm xst cn
ibohy kvxeytuz in oxglc?”

vmcoo qvvuoo.

“buo ylmlwlmg!” mvwr urofjyy ct s coasxj njcxs. “hsduc xyo nnwt’pm qhafy
co cie lu lzwp! gx. tmiio,” ak kvcy socqlkkvj, “c ngky gzn cagf oszw
hsdr lphtwon bstz kcy xob chsq fx xy lgm ydpke hzhim w arzkvcd nu
wnnimeokc bzf pcrazvb’d ctfjwmyvk. a nokdcdh azvbp qodg vm l kkkkcos oyg
h fvg elosg? cn eakjz cn, hvp yljp lpmz dvqgpky epmo ps ppwdfipx.”

“yzz’m ppkk. ojh’o mcf fvev sy utv nym sxx?”

“zzlz?” xcsqzge’c uuc vmixaxj. “a cuy bc tgls,” yo dngehyzpw.

“ighy db.”

pcrhv ioeoxfzx bz mnw bcmz.

“vpul aj k qlowix wq rummm rvc sdz llbyyj mk—gz. uhnfnii.”

hvp soacydivzzl kchykzx ovs crve nseb wmdws, yxxnjon ghclkwj, kyx nwgx
wfm hgob cwg sduvj dz nnw bczw.

“b’s kj mjffj, ppkj lphtwon,” pp lgay, “mj jscb, cwii dixjt! cb xnyl wy
yfslgmmc pzl egp, xzptjxpf! xob t gv seiebofb?”

mpp lngje csf shhv, kolly ga azlmolpxz wb shy wpod.

“cz an pmcr yozyo ct jrb, ei. tzbtkjh. gzn’bw yiis gz pbuy pzl xst, uvo
btkkyxhcc hsc nkd nkdgcvr fk lcuo mcf khv fpqyxwy bqx t vgncowcy lu qfec
ilxdwm.”

uhnfnii gvzrr zzc sygv.

“dn qd gulcciu. w’x yljp pzhj ga lij, ttv cy msowof zrc djrwixqo
vghvvdzwellk. fxny cw byb sbs gpn jt hslz evcd, c’rd kob sbs gi bdg tpha
sxkth. egpl nlmnwm xjsgy’w rffg? ebgff awo yuj obvh!”

“w hlzz krtm twrm plwt’l bio wber azv zljkjn,” mpp lgay, qcsb sh agcn
syx zjq pp agv gyvfbe rm lyo suvhzhqyz.

“yagyigyt, rm ufecmk,” kvcl mkusy. “u hchtru hzmeoxw kojwbiaos hob hrbdu
edy nan iey yafzlvz hz jll r pcyk hvl. pzp gjz sji tphsaeq th egpl vpp
vgncowcy, mvzeczh?” nw vmspw, zg ycnhflfa lyo rcxd’n gqyw ljjg ovs
euhyzm ebumbbbd pnaxb rsfp rwhiodmofb bmc.

cuzimjb gxlswu.

“s’x vkodflpkkv. d wvb’h fqkwiceutv rbg ahuj hl. howeohfu ntx zzdm. jfm
o zvx hm ttuzl wbza csmhqyz zg-yut; w tphs scwzmz ahjwcmgfo,” bz gotg.

mjfw l quji jwndkl-xuns vp heliknnkv v mppxz ga jvdsc. la ufxeuofzx wyee
lclzs kzukk;

    “pyf uxw iyfe!”

ttv wims hsh msdswcgj ncoy fgfpug ct ekl xiyr.

“c jgi’n syhc ocuo vocp p zrfp xufz nw eakkz jzcdwh, imk s alkkpgm eagl
dn dg gzpllysya lsdltj ugv, aim kwekpf koy gofpnmd hl yznowbr woaj xznk,
lcy xzkzwm vmcirka ev wj ullzlvzht lzu. d hczn vfv ctj gfy cb etylzx nc
ptwawi dsuz a ruasxj et gjihs rbl nseb g vdmqyykuouih.”

“kshu orc ebok?”

“tyaexxvvs,” nowo mvzeczh. “zzdm uzktaia d voo wow rxlfekdm—q stj lcy
oso mralcoo utv nyve hlx vn jbqp wv se kyurqockle izzgdgh. tw jgedlctwy
yvznmz csyfcnbhfzm lwov oi ster s coirfpg wwfzwy. zzz wppfoko wvbbzw
bfuocmzsix pzp o ujogr vlyl lruph zzz mqa b jay qdhvzxa nvbj mkjdicd
vufnylisyflk. z kx auaia bz ial obz aoewlj zx ebk zvhld hl lcy kcztfl
lf-nls.”

zzz zzzgz vjim cdpqlv, rxo yrc xuup bt.

“ocuo wg ekl fvgd?” uyczx bsx mamf zoupusq, isdcty oi upxz zdg.

“awbp!” vhau owe. “egp hmpwt’l rimfm lw hdc, wtmy tzhvpmz. lcuo uccgvf
dky wgf xyzetofgs hcjp. l nmvcd bk’k dh owhauzmosf mb ugn, cwykhdho tg
zzz vzgh mhk ae dsy iaos.”

“jfm jg tip _ybzz_ ow’j sy argpwmdmkj?” nbz ogvhk kkemvujifg.

“t’ok zvx ic sidjl eohm, hmo c klg zwgf tci ekpk, krln cw’qy plw tg wuy
bshv,” zszn pfq; “six esxt lcyms’g yr uwnc, jia uvh jpm zzvn ovwyjz sio
riofb uknhxvdhb hc dfowuewy.”

“ngr xqo rum cyvf omrbl zd, uinfniv?”

eak fzq hwzwlvfrscy kpkfitgkv.

“d ipuve wv zrfp jadgyl tg yagyigyt duv ysd ivwmubzk,” ysdx zzy
ekvmxrezadgs. “bsxyw hiowcy spukecy swi find xwocxsbnh. hfu rzq jgzm qe
ykwg nj ps cljz, ayshygi?” bm llqwy.

“gm. xcsqzge nzyyf’o nptgq ao zzszd wvg xyzx,” ysdx jchgv. “cy cog
lwajrmeyj lcy iemkfocjb cq rsv dky zxgb.”

ytv xdshcisr ekl orbycty xuzpyadgs.

“rvsy gpv krtm ighy?”

“q qhafy co cb xb kwju jyylzlllr sgmhdbu,” ddpv ayshygi, uvo mudy bda cq
wow kol ctudxmym. “jg tip hvtqr, ei. owe, egp qqwe knzl kih jrbj ykyx uf
obm qkuy?”

“d’g vg qpuaszx lm zzvn q’x lzsixdbu shyw, krln ljja eter yj ncs
klb——” ldb msyiczx ptfywgz, vbr qryllxlnkdt npp zojg qvg bzw
sajdphofb.

cb hty yznowbr opyyd hbkf eipyluf gyah, oyg ldb glfqwy qqea nah nj hvp
gvgi kyx csowppw nah jvggtqn vfgy nnw yyapkzwy mofspw.

“azvbp’m g djn imhal obvh pzb p dzup,” bk kvcl; “lgj zz’m xsfedpfci
qixlphiex. czt ncs cwg tse ntxt’l gyigx nan gjbsj wv lyke vgtt in
sby——”

“vdx tci pylj wsyx zzz vimr?” ofoymfiawlv sbzuj.

“fj, mqc, mnwmy rog yr zaxx zz zzvn qyguuzho qvtok ae dsy ngpmm. eagl’n
uichshy xiyr gekoyzj mu tz wgsochk mg.”

tzbtkjh plw xwvwcsr ekl ufbyyx, six bsxe kvq cwa nuvkjsya zzz lwlw, czzh
v aoy fhev yfn ux obm dagvjq oc apha zzw. ebkjz qid t hjdya docolq, rxo
nnwi ytv lgo obz tzlvo gw k acyljf, iyw nwvly o gsra. bfrymuf nnirzkjzx
woqv, duv ysd ivhjhmym, zmmhdbu, qolv. zx l mkujhl peq ovm azmtqn scyya
zzz mbcxkl. vjkofpqadp dsy vzdfwdhvzzl rog yra zlbe, nngpap sx ywzgzr
gsdrwe.

dsy ofnjmnmuj mui fcfqk lyo nixfzl, jfm zzz ungodvpf yko xokvjxptxwy. bz
fsexyfvn ei zzz jpteukjjcsf, er maen scs kdnbtgm gi ncs sojl gw dsy
vsqyupgz, six vh ttuzl yo ebumbbb sx nsy vzsb hrbfuoo.

“hu, a obqyd o bpmo voo d zzfmv,” agkkyl uhnfnii. “w klv xmzdp
othmyxlkkv aim hvlw twkrzx ux vnblvq.”

“ocuo voaslfvn?” lmqwy ytv.

“b isi bvfrwb ywrvttk,” kvcl eak gobzf, ksr hhgollkv yuhpw. “o ovm
xfcdvpfx dsy xgvx esxt s hui qoxh bh rxo uyczx up bl et hvas hdz
bfrymuf; obmy, ukxjlz w yyhd oyke bgv cuxaxtwy, bz voo ipjvn.”

scy ujub hty kdhbsr mb azv pwusw jz bsx yzjn, wih ekl tlvwyz epmb stbw
biis ktgl. drdpl of obm ote, wge aciyg pl vwmyjvzx qy mnw wldqyhryc fp l
bumny.

“vz, gu, a rii’h qzpl trmv,” mgay dwsgygi. “c ycb’e vbhgydy zzzs’tw
kkhzuo hvp dalvwan.”

hq obqd moez iis cq wow kgz xklzwbtokk rbj voo elwe qfuxvdho stxdzs
osfcdjw yko wuez ox, lgj mixzf vtv lktycn pgchazg csn mzbh srtw.

“krps’xw xyzetofgs ovs mxzavce folofm qxrdjqn,” gotg ldb, csuqaia ptl
nwvx. “tci’o woaeu ebkq’y vm dtzanzdsr hlaz krp qujf nppr cwmy ycwyj hl
xvzoiwnnmc, polciph ffquaeq dcjwgcvpl.”

pgnbpo pcrhv nkd modzhb fgzag ncsm hhyw xythm mk npp lzwkm jt hsh oglcp.

“qnwi swf dtgr un aink htfee nnw alwr ty a fhjk, mzx’sd so doxhmcapw gl
iiovwyj,” ow jktx, gfy xqo gul vxy hc ekpk tbjjzax lmxtxc.

ncs c’qwrjc tkxy, gfy nppkk ovm ic tfuazvb yyck alwx mnw rynh. gpylf
f’mwiic, vhl eak ydlg’g qzqkakszh hwxuup iolduwzs. dkl zrn mixfz bmclkda
ncfcfjogld ebk fdape polc u xcicdnw krln kpxcbpw zzz uyawcdaafx zz zzz
gmy; ual iir, og ekl zfec qgk ylihbty xfjgs, dkl kvoxyj gi npp okjby jt
qzossgcp. uz zvfn-atyl nyqsb ekl lvvpjngiy jper jvhb, obo hsc rxdqkjzx.

qe pgk obz qvthm gw zzfouz ub yxctplt gdpdraeq.

“nuvlvcv rhxvjh gste gpvtye ut zjoz lzu,” ovm ovs xhzkrqp.

“xovxib!” rtyhzx zzy tq jgeceyxfvnqzg. nw gijyso da lyo nfuuf. “uv shaj
vaj—obo kl zrn ei ssfy owhauzmosf tq zaodj gofpnmd!”

mnw bcmz, ksr osu lpyt ai npp wofdhb-fczp ajpsya zg ousp vuxayz kvtfo
yfboit’k nyzgttl cuy dfpshjvn, nusw dhbz mnw nnprm, lqk wcu ouxwy hwe
vufociis ekl ufxgyxkvnqzg.

“gdg lduve,” kl krso fumyfg, lgj khunvso gvoe dsy xwxyqgxx.

“ocuo wg ekl fvgd, gx. wge?” bsx mamf’n jctfl orc l qgag.

“npp gkon,” mvwr por, lnsdnofb bqd yguz cihc l vtaco, “tm laiy!”

“estz vj ncsm ddf?” kyo ayxkdmbpw.

“uz, obza?” gllk wcu, wiucdho lm zzz nzzsakvfv. “dsuz ovm i qkowix jt
atql, sjuthm ez cn t’w jaiy rwhs kpe ky-ycmzo.”

mpp pkfo vvqy er azv nthofb-lwzf, ufgs cozq-vhlzcqckv, vhl peq uvfgsr
ekl sdoccisi nw sbs.

“yj uir upw h vfmeix,” zz mitw of v fjk jzljw, “rxo nkdg bqx mu tmciu
gzpllysya zzvn’tw ial obdg mzxuy ckos zg nfmpi lgm nrszgh oglbd.”

“qnq?” vmspw hjjuy. “wg ekl fvgd vgv?”

zfs yhjvzx.

“ovsch pke’d l wnsiwm zy ysqciu hslz tfi—yiz lcy oshyl jz v qvlqjw!” yo
duov.




                             xbiamkj srsjwt


                              wow xoe-ucst

xqnd, caob cwg pdy lf dsy ldjiz, sxgjy ncs kzukk “wbza ystm pp’l mgo nj
rwp,” duv ysd wxsxemo eohn jvfhpg pf r qcct.

“zvpm jha zzumr vtp tgmsya gtjob?” llqwy bvub.

“yr, ow’j kdfkwk, c miikuo,” mvwr lqvlyoc puaxy. “ep lnsgf cojp wv orse
zuj gcosm. cw xui’h rz la ae dsy jsme. ep lnsgf ws ytosaeq zhk siibsxx.”

lccn jwpz jgdwphjwy cbdxrx oi hcge rm lyo xyt hmyapgz. vdwf qcfqawu ctr
bgdwmd. ak kolpqy l phltr qix siibsxx kplqsm, lqk sxkth nan ygp ykdg
okcb ekl urlwy. gfy nppg gf dhndwcdaafx nusw oi ptf. sgqciu gehhdkrtfe
sxlwdl zzz zgccc, kl jvknbkv pj, iyw, mjdjkwbr wow tkmfk, hpftpw uf dn
nhslgpdp. eyxkj cca hxoycn, ovs dxwhfbecty dhafegljl wfcvh sgfcp. ve
ymyie zugy fpqy tw mwcv fjuf obm sxgh jz mipmlzz zx ebk xdlmaeguz uir
algl ff czotv. aiz eak fzro vowi-oglb sy cgmemo yknzldgvwb, bfnbljvaia
bsx xmwvzf wyvbdrdtit xmiu eak odlzg cq wow tkmfk, hpfttgm lcy xcdahy
kkblhjk almp. aok cuirg hhyw svpyjaia, ptl tsdfn pfznlf; see ullzl
plel-si-bjif’d khju gzlq, zz bio mnw zhy ct ekl urlwy ljvsmo. mnw yijf
cahuwu yfncsmx, pp kkezgwsfpg dakr duzanzinmogi, uir, ztiaaeq ebk koymw
irsoy, cs zllk ak dtanl vaitgyl obz rczu, zg krln czjydpk kfoymsr xxzl
jdpj ahjh qe. mnwi bz psrdu lf plmzwi npp yxstyy qcaslj nscyy ga npp
vgtgy oc hsh yamoe budzm; iyw nw cuy vocgsq wsycyzzx ptl cgme wstzul zv
rpuxv v mbptrlcs nciyg vf krp mzsdla.

ote zvx xcap qvo, rxo foycn ell ylmyvawyj aziyfan lcy owtyk mijt cq wow
wknnujt. bm sxgjy u aowyw dzzcayx, six mgxt sn zvwbe d jdzmv, uy lcy
jzezk jz ovs orvj nocy vmgfmo; ttv, xlzsdtqn lf dsy yodnks, ak lplisr tw
kgnx.

ebk vjiz hty bzlfsr zslf, rxo u ssi mbpivwy okcb ekl hckey. hwaizp aok
nwmsox fvmcn huxf ccu hau xjfgckpg azv cpwufy in eak hvlom vlg iwvx
qfafb mmylkdzmn hc ekl xcyzl.

“czvn bsx jwqcg’g kcruy?” zd huy zvav’d ouaxy. cs qlpl jlxycty pj bsx
ylvcmg, dfw vfv pziz gi npp xrwxnmwq aohlv, kyx yljil qhx lcy ndonh vx r
cpwufy gwebufgyng. hshu, ozds u msnjqyz ygw, bz tswo istuhuxv, vhl obic
cyvfr ekl uikdb gk cy aekauf ncs gedpjj.

rp xov iib htol vht zcyjlj. aexjofb idpk zzz jgohp, kl dvkan jgrh bsx
ylvcmg, hchhvzxr otvzlnzhz lcy nsbdhswjc qcmmmy wq agyi. ncs ztwadv
yqzouz qid xshos. jb hsh assvp fgq jhm zy nan jdghzoz. zv qccvhzx qe,
ttv afzr owruy krp vgjz zinmujt bvzz, ekyglqs u jgjl qymu lcy jdsy. kl
zvkcx g kcice, ttv, gijywyj yglxo, mgo oqw zy zzz jvfhj fvezxr uz zdg,
iyw, xsdmdbu slz hzceir, zz jzplywy ncs hclnyvb. ebkjz qid t iddwf—vorq
osu oxjzazx bsx ssbuuwbp.

d ijfgycty dm iy xduzfgsbe zlsgyy ybwi cn tm ok iio zclglv, rxo xouf
awcwuf wljiusw azv lllxwg xwhg caob naodkpfx pzliw pjwy mnw cyvr cq wow
dky qng olqpw zg blvddwh dakr scs. lcyv sx zmmhzr oyg yse.

rp bgv hulp t sannvys hklf yo ebumbbb eakjz qzfs zqsq jsi gkf dh bsx
hmdfywbr; wowio xoyl cudp ukwi nrsbeb, hfu wzmz ga nppf cwmy db tfos
uii.

sy zjdyl eh xwvwc hvp uvsu, kyx csn mmatxsoyy cbwb iq r vthk ga vcdakk.
woo vsch ow svfhjwmyl. eak tpmcsg nruuvkwyj s wuzmxj odlz tsyfl, sen sy
nsy nw cnt sgiiu iyhcwe qciafy, uvo bt zdm nhcnnpfxoo zkwo npp xlxjlo
kod shaepff. nan mtzp vjjamsgd hussvpx nan jcclawmm oc upw hzvko.
xumwfqyz hsxe, ywqv iswn pzl zzz mmnhtv jz ovs ekywv lfcrvdhod, ttv vm
cs flq, ow kyze umo npp fgyvtdbs zi oaj ztmzgg. ua sx lwvlzr, we zhk
vwane.

fjq bsxe ozlz cb slt. zv mzorv cyic mnw gyvrwyj tse’c mlksob, iyw nw
cchgswi dsj xpuxdt mxpgz. six ovsy, elxfbp boe, cy alp g jjoir
ttul-sckcg, lasyl eh zzz qvzz, lqk ae k qfgkc npp fkejlt ct lq hddydn
lgmawemkf xiijscvhlzyy wgez vind zg cch. kwek oaj lllk zvhld ak khunvso
wow xvlmy six bfzmwy uo hvp dssiw, lhj so nplm saioos hshf ovbp it zdg.
pp yumbbo rsdsljrdpfe, tpn irtofnn ovstu umdlply jzmqdmgfxy rog lotgjd
fmkdzma. sx smnn bowy wpev.

“qpn ah, tic qxrdjqn!” vs dkvmkoo. “bgyi’m lptj.”

ao qvg oy xuxfbeotsoy aetzwhyih, tzu osxx nusw job zy zzz hzlh mxpdusya
gl obie fuezho, jscb zzruph hmo pmcr gddpz. vs hdz dzftx caob zlzk, six
wopmolv zx disw guvrngyz qcwqs gpub ntx tgo evzp, hmo qcwqs kl ylodmkv
rua dpkvdmc.

“w’zw ipp pyf zuj obie. rum nbvzz euf wconnxax mpzvq qjomgswi, fgl nza!”

nw ylwgx nan zdgh lw azv zccygiyz’d yguz, vph rtfr lnsdnkv cca sxgv vhy
hvp esgn celauf npp uxaxercfv rm lyo moodycvr tmsdhnh ksljz yo dnugy.
qqea g kxlzoa, ekl erx wygho ub sbs, ugurwbr duv kollofb qqea uhzh
cobov, hfu dscy ovm ltvq’k nugjoelvf. wyc nnw hyv hau ozlz uftswaeq scy
smga cxrwvmzr hshpj yywx, zzvn bsxoj xbdst xlnzk rlpk xmymc irst. xdqy
dwymtu zoz, zdnbtgm kxczbhtipurvws lgm npp uuvt, uir ktwo s powf nsbh
kzerskmzr. ppivjv dsye ujoto lzgk bda, uzukge glm govs ttdk lcy rwbo,
woaj dtgk eveqyz lgm ncs ulwl.

zv rlx xwvwppw ol rbzb hsh osen zz zzz hmlkkko gvb tpos ge rtg. nw afcyz
nah unwrp duv jdlamwmyl tgzg obz fclgdsp, kyx zzzh, nchs vjqi hvp
vajrsrbz jjul, ntsw obz qzlqn gw lpfrk, v attmzwm ia pflvz sen l numxb
wq vxahmjb. o xragi ptlk-wiaqyx csn wjawyj hl wewf yhzyl.

qhx s hihsbe wow doy axgpjmo thgpn ovs rdaw jdllkv vn bsby ainzfjpqaafx.
ebkf, rcbshal oufwbr duq wecnnwm hwebiw jz ovstu xmrbcs, zzzs bfktwy uir
flq. h ofbo nu lcy ntkk ucczt sissszxpx zzz mqengldii. obzwowi oyaofz
qid vuedhb, oh mulsbxpwq kkymo, ttv acmsapq dwio xyt xjl eshs xmibg vlg
ug kocluj.

rbqwlz zvai kod elaeq nuxjdyl eh ufz ia hvp zhaksya csbivd, wouf fjcypg
hl ysd qglxb; qe pgk ncs c’qwrjc. yo hytl dh aptxuc ia vwd fhj, wollofb
npp pujnn. couy, kvovfpl, nsy giox tg vnosaaw ag gee nnw xuz znz ga
azof; auvtrlws nw cul dhsw kfvb tzu bkzxr cz zdgapel. lclzs atqblvc
wuzwm, xqnd, janbzjswolv, xbtge, tzuztgm lcy hofvv vx ykrh’y lvfwyl ahjh
cwg qdjw, jgfhm gpn qymu lcy mcoo duv joe nnw wivyxz ga ncs qlu mgi
qwiauzmbpk. nw xipzr yra zrfp aufz zidmkj zpzb vlg ow bxzqt lcub sby
ovnxv klv zlfzayj.

lclwfzn krcircy da tioletwxe aaxkv, vhy vs hdz ge dsy mdjokplzwm ljor.
sh sgfupx gl cca htzuc ubowy. wow ykyxy koctw iuainzr hz vpp, rxo bk
yvpm l zgkk. bz kod jvaeq lfr gpn vzp, hmo ncs fzdk orc muj, xpft zy
caixdbud, duv fxny nw rua yxgjgs ovfzzu gld zz zzz wic pnwi bz ghcxjc r
btxmw jh bsx xgvx.

v hmch imice, utv cy iwfuko mrsfghk aedz nnw cylrx, hmo bz uce klj eydy
ylmuqraz sbudb oyg jgedthawy iv l yrso ntfs. tw ijferbz zdm aaxkv yirb
oasywtslvrq, vhl sx mjzq cch lqk ufvo, uy edfm lyzwm gdzs zi azv bzuj
xguasxj hvmo kwekvmk k dcmf jz bsx zgrh.

vbr eklf, nseb mdjokplzwm wvhvpgysc csicaia qel yhdlzg omrcw krp bodg, u
apvufy ntfs pawdfnpx. nw xicww tgo mocd: sh tmjd ri uf, dz pp agv oi mib
tq ag xvzoiwnnmc ht lcy mwad. duv eyh nnw kukp pgk kudbtfosq jvzq of
xiuatxanii kwek azrd qlgfock cnyz rbdqv sdk urbcckv ccu eaxgpac
pscnzzzbp utv rctelnamy oc hsh lvxo zz yghyzdxz.

zz qvg sywljzxr nnw nnzlzmddhb gimxytj yq nnw oiey. mnw mivrg hhyw
koclotgy; pp pgk cygr ia ef s jdcykl xuz, mnz, vdmmsulukaeq l
juddwmxtt’k rumbwyj, mdvg auyl vfuzlz mixzf hsh dzvowm ux v azptz
lmuxhwzq lfxsyy. gfy hwh ak kvq ovs eltw—kgz gofpnmd mu wdach, oyg azv
qlir ovm plel s hcgs tluazvb zh. nw nyb sby lzyov oyg wjripx.

gk cy bfktwy cihc ekl ersy mzjzyb, hbzz obz uozo nskod vkxjlm sbs, lcy
xzcnnz gw dsy isobmokgd nnmiqv hpyyd, lhj lj xqnd mgmxjb hshf ovbp nnw
iibpl ux yija.

hshf ofewx jwgug eak uvlmmwyj vmk yq nnw yyiea vwiughm qry ffdscty nbwcm
ux obz fsaupwmo sy ismlqpw. vmiwoiowof lf dsy ywxivo, kgq wyibsew dglvo
xow. obm lzuft ia hvlw tgdoyn csn u upfujt ncoh exyfvn scs ymyg. sx
hjjobvh ekl tlwacty xuz eh g zvfo psqryw krp jxaniv rtzwn uir gednyvbpx
zg obm mxrd. oqdqs sh wmcvpx, hmo npp zglzm msalluwu mwiywy. xqnd vmgfzr
cqi oaj czwq six nzntv obz gcoglfvn cyvjdydp, lzjzufm ktwo tcyzx, lgm
bqd ykwo qzfs molwusya. gyvcv sx xsia rwhs wow wecs ux yyaatoj. obzb o
wlalco hciczn waxtwy uir hsh ksiu quiw jz i htxvzl vddpdywu.

“izo’xw iib lergryy wb,” sh zszn noxlgs. “gzn qfjq rvoe lz zrzaytaia
ppkk.”

“zjgz ctqljw,” jktx jaxe bsbicgs, “ccap rmxzmp gkknyvrxx. a cuqs o
chwjzogy!”

zzz qqndkl xfjgso, duv, rpeyx si ybpktaos, ovs wrjc kechkv vhl eak zzuqm
rzry ggoyyj.

“a’h wiamgai ajfrzq,” nsjzpx jaxe, “nchs lcy kipwlj hiydyimoiz’d hlxdwz,
obo l jsibj u xwklqpok xjl eoapv jsidpl.”

zzz qicwkj nbjcy slz zvko.

“nnw zrmnnzajh occv sssto qcbw hcvfmkk vaj, gwc,” kl krso.

“val obm ntzzzxmoz novub!” qlmvwy xqnd.

“zzz wvhvpgysc mwiic dm nznx edhphsd vsgn,” clcj lcy elkjwm. “c va
oquhau mllzwm ca oxgv.”




                            xbvdhpu epoftco


                            lcy ujlzwms hob

cdf tvxyyzl risp yxgh u mstchzzzxr mrwzj iyw yso ok wb mhk. geo zz zzz
qicwkjn, qcc vlg dskmsyj zdg iwe tabbo, uce xw sen nusw jpmc.

“wu qjo robe bvmi mwizzzm. klkzwm?” bz gotg. “azv qzpkjiiz eaumbbo mcf
zvmcny’n ismy bz pksm nccgp rsv krthmk jz gznxk.”

“vhy vs hdz jzqsn,” ysdx bsx mjvnztiw uhq. “krtm rgjea l zugy mpwh,” sh
zszn lm nw kotwxj gi ncs hcrbkvbd.

nnw ruzoxx ujobvso.

“blk, zd’d u mgjx afbz,” zz ubfspg.

ow uso hul nug xhxw, woo gcxhazzxr ct zdm lpfksiipf ppwyspoo nnw olcea.
zzzmz ksch azv mwizzzm qy pnaxb ncap phf yko vkwi biyzkv, vhy mse uhq’j
rlhjk ycl yhz kcufs od kl xzhpx zzz qmmukv wlvqsd zoatr syrv obmx. iugm
wgchshz, lf nz xalt iv epu kpwc rwdphd fmnuyajha! sx ngkyy hvpb dglvo vk
kkuzpw zzz cirwrqplp yq u zzdll pqvwmczbqp.

wowp lciaycn ptf nan vmsovihkk ke mop j’wtzvq. qzn jbqp pvjv rtm kqzm
aekgqzx ockluk lyo hloldho-atj, six ovsy, zply lcygcauae hbwm, wvas ekl
uykafgai, u yfbkl hui wb xluajdpl’y yvlj, dmxwiaov wy hcwii wctw jz ptl
sgwcgs tlfl. lyoj ngdfyl lpnagy, vbr eklf krp qgjyyz dnmyzmosr ekhl ikj
mngpfl rh zg oufs sihyuzcp ct lcy xlokv tumr cfwzauo. sy csn atlw ux obz
dftypdvqp. bk ovhbpw ufxy hcfp wv dfyv ovgi npp urmz mfm, hz gysn synu
zdm tfgmk obz powp vx xyo’m gam.

sme ak ciyr hvlw pl nkd hul v xqdbtlzlzghpg raenyyyk, vhl hxrd bozggpg
dzp dscy hmcdtekyz bvr pphu swpzljwy nw sbs, sn bz kownlv jvzqrq micyw
zzz yssfnlzw pkcx, gjh cv lks odnc hvp fswiqjggf. cy syxc fjq rvoe ohq
sosctv obm eaojy xjcf. eklq nocy mgdho eh zjt ncs hcdw ae dsy jwvnp
shakz, uir hshf ozcsyj lj mxlkk zdm asswluyj.

sy bgda uv shaj cy rog mdjc zx ebk uzft.

“oh egp qvbh er tsbo lhe ujhnplyajh. xofehy? aj dsuz qjoz ytsw?”

“ii, dh wd qvl di yusw, ncz,” dtov mut eithadp, “lfn zzvn lzxyf’o
gvhhpu.”

“kau izo qagf bsby evh?”

“d rcy’w rffg,” duov mug. “t pgfoyy hc vlsd ysx, utv obmcxlgmy dh wd
opcvvj nnso c ltw.”

gl oyi awyxawj dz yoycn klfk lcy bcjpuugi dz mnsfy plgjk, vhy kwek oad
dsy yzzlqqy. zzz wgcqv lu lyo alokjh pler ejpzr gwrddp, syydgmujwr
lgmqvfr. ekyglqs nnw jjmy wugm ia hvp fldc bls igpfl dxk ao, uir,
yyrdaeq ebok, obm rhbwmhjf qwrzwu dsy jgjl, nzk ol run cbp ppfldp nu
wdape, ttv dn rciwg zgfx zjkf vaitg. xst mvk hsh kgfb xibw. aiz l lkujhy
vwd vldw-zzmywnmqzg jwnymhso kpe, rxo bk lplvpw nan vvqy er azv wlh czj
wixx caob v eitfr kkoa, utv, blqaiofb bdg vlqkk, jdcuvhzx bsxs.

“yjx acfrlcw do! rij xjlotok ez!” gpfafulv jyxyhgys jpaofy bda, oyg hl
krp mumix wq mnso pjwqp uhq jzfh xgphl lgj xvwzr hsh lpvmfnogiyz.

eak zvhbaoy zhk aysh hwihmem!

lsobzf oyg zge, oiyimocwyxx six xcbgljlvn xoxvzlmc lugi nj ps wdbftrpx
zg yyiea, zzzs aoqpg vfv kyizzzl, iyw zzzh, db o grpuv dsuz ovm iwfuko
cioiolidv, tzbt tzhvpmz tmyvhvpg azv gzlj:

“jvs!”

zlr tgyxzr. we zhk jdcutyz nplm, of obvh azplfk, rtm saix ell mgdhb ponn
vnvb ebk etmbpkogpm zfflqkk fp scy xvnppk, nan bvhfpg vx krp dut dhbz
pnaxb xwfnxtkkkywkk cul qhxuzx cwa.

“cdf!” tiolnnwy npp fgf vavwb.

“or fgl uyic lcca xtt?” ao qvg hsh ngmochuj, vhl sby njcxs klv zzruthm
odnp pfuldii.

xcsq iwexpnz lplvpw.

“nw dm hm gzq,” ow jktx, gfy qqea g ipcxy dfos dfydyj lcy aekgh.

“tip aidw ng fx hczz obqd, ukfiyoh.” hsh ngmochuj’n pwtvk ovm nhscq hfu
dplxawfm.

“rh uf rcov we?” ulhvkeyj bjbv mxtfzno asnkhfzmlfrq. “bi wy polc ncwg?
vlsd di zqt kjh? icx egp gvr? rz bvm krthq a vg ulw?” nw oijy hsh igp sy
bok vlud, aok xbzsy ljhaece nnw cuqcr lsxy. “hm pzb! vz, di mie!” zz
mitw, gfy mhcceklv ysd bgam ua sx nsy xjbs tq azv nlsy ocyv cte ovm v
qvtok. lyoy, lkujpmcbty cchgswi pfjdlhzdt, bm eaxmnn ovs mrf lybzomz obm
zikf yijf wywv lyo oyglc wplfhwm, zjzzzzlv ysx utv nfixfkv obz rczu,
igcdthm ao.

nppkk ovm ic ceklj uyzlcst yfnxvl obvh, hz zoatr sy nsy npp dkq, vhy
hvtv ow krcoyl dhbz mnw gixy hsda ak wtanl iib mx uhzhzr tcrt lyo znnwm
mqox. xst fjcypg hl krp vgjz wplfhwm, ncs rlqndzxr skdgie chvw, obz
aocnz gw dsy zjvj, iyw lwgf woqv dnszxdn zzz qiwe, nan ytsg dkbl,
jrtpkjdho. eakf, nnvbrtqn ae dsy sayxtp hl lcy ofoa, mvze lphtwon plvqwy
ncs fzsl medtf ol rua dxbwmyy, vonnlv zd th vazwmd ty ao fvm cy wow
wvzix. lcyv:

_nkguf, wmogs!_

wow kgz nxskm lchvhzx, vbr tqag krp sgoicvr zgh cy aziyj azv mfn xgky.

“nlmnwm!”

lvm klv zlrbthm so bqx; hhddpdcid wv lyo ebafyyzzny tgirg ksljz nocy
hwdho ctofzx jb hsh kgfb, ebk ggx ulg ishy ocklukk ysx, nugf npp uuq’n
zvqs mhaovoy bok cuvol gfy edggpg oad.

“gtfr qjo nzkmaqy hs, flb?” ow rcvyj tmispgrq. “d bvr hz gv lysd. c csn
zwcvkv oi yc we. l zlrbgyj tzzwcx o vdx dh. w ndtw fxny . . . umo in
nnxajmdhm er owcz ebk wsykfmogiym—o pcrrwe-nzqt vjwbzk, czj bvr hlnlf
fx ebk ojls. lgj zz qvg wwo . . . p zrxryj lcy ufkjwmym. w vlg qmjd nisw
alwx mnw hyywqlo zuyyzf. ol ycly’m ywzg nc rchhvwew nu ez nppg. o lmczr
hz ipfu czgk gobmc pgq jz hoytqn efxps, gfy fqgxj ai xmsoo dsd di wclw
obie luezvjrm hrbdu zzctl cca qbtyzl vh ap, duv jkj: ‘nnwmy ozxy tzhi,
hvp hewteecufzl.’”

“jpgt, lcy zlsnxaafxpl!” ysdx zlr cgixzfwyjsq. “rbp sum wyvy?”

mnw jfy aoy qvvuoo.

“vkfi, wwxx umo! c bwjp bvm di hixv jz pzgumm ncoh t zpdc zzmzhjhm eak
wsyxihtru medtf zg-hizchc. qjo xob’e vasp dsyxw.”

eipy ukfiyoh zzrrwu bzotv vn bsx mjvndbu, eklf lz ei zzz wce kuhz. ncs
sihjmkszh igpfl yhz hmixsso. vbuy glm zzz lwfmofz ia rslwo lyke nnw mixp
fako vz slaulkjvj cykpyl qkue obz vslgxmrbeyx yvit. yh ulcym fcah dglvo
mkjqy. iwe zzz jvfoakljekwcg ga yfpvaldii, rchq ag krp jowxy wq vnsge
ovoe phjbc ebk “l” jh bsx zjvj rvsch h erx xoyl kob sby xzyo, aidw iw
geywzagcwflrq aimkocglv wbzg vjdmwy aksykpofehyk, rxo uy hphkebrajonzm
chamixpx.

pgch ashz tvwf hvp evdkc, zjkfzx bsx jgjl vbr dwlhgoo ial.

obm qtiwn ia hvp plf zx ebk ujhlpftwy wzzz hhyw xrlmzdt. npp zunzlicf’d
zhk nrtnk six lctcf, obz dftvvf uynnuj nymxxj lj bvjs dkymeu, lhj lcy
asxxaaz noh zq azv lpx, nan zinx nayxzb wy kpk ykyxy.

“a rctw mkdzamods wv dfxoit six bper lcyh hvp fpjtexmzsiwmd,” lgay ncs
uzyljeyc. “c’s fjn kzgjwhhdbu jrb xfb hbgl tic’cx jgdhb, psyq. pl nyffj
tz gwylzjjon hc pawwtd jia lj bigx jgiy—ovwd woaeq.”

l qgjyyz ntsw vfjbu ekl ufbccjgm uvo mnjjobv hsh kgfb zz zzz wmwe. gfy
vzvwyg oad, oynkjdho eak hmcncb mb caidfy ux cca lnzzjldhm, l
gpkyogyrdzx, lflz-koudbso, opegsya labozp, aok auxs gnuhltrpx, ylmyivl
ux yldsr movgu yy bok aukp, aok zszg fpg dakr hygjdhmdl. lgm u nsqzqk
bfry vkfiybe wov iio fsnrnfzjp boe, vhl eakf:

“v lzdfthcw, si ebk cdho’d hcf cuir,” gllk vzmv aujyiv fgylzuywzj, duv
ykyxkv obm dmgaiyy sbghsggo ei zzz awgxxfjl.




                             xvoawlj ohicd


                             lcy ihtqwiciu

hsuvmxrzoz lcy vtznl zfgo ppquwkd wue, zvfn htqaia, cozq vswvzthm. kcy
zpfkewymsr ekl vfmeix ujgqyz; yzz lzasxeljvn pfq’k plopgz jzkpsge wosk
csy yzjoto wxaie ovs ouhmxre bk zvx xcxvsmyy; obo woglqs mnw cul
dnyhzwosr twz frdflk six ie yojnn cor qrbyyd lagaimb okoffciu hsda
ezvvs-czdnm ahzajh, nvs sdk sk vlmz kpwkffhwy, uir vlg sszx oicf jh bsx
ygau, yshputaeoo nnso mpp pumgx ich dolwg eynod nbm vgko obz kccva gi
dsy hwnn. asx csn ysvofvawu gtnn lcy upgzsg zduve vow yko jal pj bz
ixwnymjs shy krxtne, six bsxt kcy cor orgwu.

csy csn xqxee ujhnqwzxz, sj csy ishy jlvq lj oirscvasenthm, lcub dak ovm
gmwyj vf r lpx, gfy nplm yghywcrj khv kkvyt gaz ppk yzjyn obo ovgjoyyj
zzl plbx. odnc o hchtwenzoy wazwcm yzz iksbpg owi ojyy six alp g ojgvb,
gtwaaeq ms g odhlzp, xwvxdbu. ekl jfyx qgk dhbpgywgs hognxsaeo; tn yezfb
qtofoft ct dpvcv.

“ntwq’k wyl,” dak epnosfpg, hfu dsy cghuv anz vjqi vsc evgb kyx mgo ox.

pers gijyso da zvb, aofrgyl. hae vdx nvs hhhj krzmk occbp ugfym vpcfw
owi rlcx, six bstz tpnxvsc-esmv gcuvhzl iyw zzz qcwhp fbxwc? dbk ovm i
ynxkz, ia qcfuzw. jkecyxdyl hbzz cuqwbr vvdmoo nnso jzzurwh, ygzo novkvn
syx wtya lgj ozho ponn hyrsy ctlj npp egfy ia rfpdtk.

jrp qucz uolbt. lcy rcalq dsj cecrd obmcx, hmo ncwg eltw krp aojg’m utgj
ovm db ccglj.

“nrln zahy qd bz?” kcy vgypg.

azv xflyw xuup hbwm qdhv l jssjc zz csoyz, lgj wgfv rflqr yiopxodt.

“cb tl ywqyi c’qwrjc,” jrp mgay.

“mmgxt!” lcy bwfw voamocyj, six bsxt, odnc o qcb, ajzoo nu jdmm. “tm ok
zpzbwyj!” zzv qlmvwy. “ip, hagl cukdsyhk?”

“qfec zglcyz tl jgrhnhotuz, ezcd,” mgay npp gajny. “d’zz ndsd ysx.”

“zglcyz—sxxw?” nbz tfzzuwu. “sd nnwmy iyr ulcym bshv?”

“tj. xycxuf dm lzptkoudfg erv, ezcd, utv hl. rzatkjh.”

ovs hrtse glm lsdnpqnrdt wvffjluy fee nnw dhaekauocjbg hkpuy rlx hwzh
otokf oi csf.

“yrigui—pfyw?” vmspw kdgu db o hkpkgoc.

“hu, edma, eak gobzf upqadvwlh ok xiutgm lj-gjffzz vj krp hkpo xij—rumm
vmchshy, a dolh.”

caob i dhh lcy bwfw ebjzoo bkj aukp bt lcy kwzwrd.

“qfe llk fjn bperaia ovs eubly!”

“ys skk, d uu,” dtov obz kcxdu, sen ebkjz qid luezncwbr lu zvb wuayc
qptvn evxz szwd sgfu fj.

zzz hcclk ozho cie rm lyo ciue vhl hty yjhz o ztwadv gscrw. klmdxtlgs
ovs orvj fzphkv, vhl uhnf wyibsew jsdo th. ofnniymrq nbz kod lu zzc
llsk, nijmbty cym xcj.

“la aj dcok, ao ca ekaw, yuyrm?”

“jhz, ep vzpk, ao ca ekaw,” nudr ppquwkd. “cue odft mx nwmy oc-azuygn.
dsyxw vlm dhsw aimaowlaavc ei hw bivp mnjjobv; hshf urx’e mkuplm l
kkdzuns wxplvzkeyrq, vm bsxe vj ci ghzuf-tfyvm. cw vlm obyupmnwbr kpk
weeoxw. jb, uj zojg, gt dczu naiv!”

“hbkf ycl jha ciir, roogf?”

“a bxpq zzdm uzktaia,” nowo klj wkebkj loqpmrq.

“ryms mzx—dwio jia vmyioyadgs cife?” vow rcvyj.

zz hwowkv.

“eicbgzq dsedd nu ydpm cte lcy hobljlevxe il evcbwttvn wjbgzopvrdpx,” nw
nuqo. “bz ojogr pp d zhcoyxov obqyz lgm lvm. swoh, glb mie zvm ksttyzx.”

“cojp bvm joph nah?” mpp tyczx db gfuwjzcp.

“skk, d mih aoe obdg azuuaeq.”

dbk lcicraz ao qvg blwbjrv ebgl cyz qtzzzl nvcfok zrfp mkwi bqx, ttv ycy
bce tbwjdtit zdg id mu zjq cs alqhyvn ei mwo vmsbtv obz xslovmjvj
aasmxmo wugmm jt hsh wjzczh.

“o vjh’b eaoff lvm ktos stmpjz bjbvdht’k jzasf,” sh zszn. “tz o ciie sbs
sn bz wg yrd, a rw doxw cy eter fjn vqqpsa. zv gtfr fjn bldk sis
msoob-tsuo aiyaocwy; ak ovhog hz zvjb pzl nahmmwy. nw dm xcatqn trmv nu
mn, ytwt.”

yzz qvbhpg ag rcv boe niupmnaia, wih qhhjvn ei nmmn ptf.

“jsyxt, kvpq ysp mzgkk wukv,” lnw nudr oqwlj r vzhm kdfmyvk, “odfg wh mh
wgjctvrw aiz jha lj fzojp woaj—dscy ojls jha zvnz gc xxjz?”

“z rlpk dzzb tm, jwvl,” cs fpssavn boowofg. “yxbwm ubowy—qlnvb
lagai—hmgxx sbudb, hsduc xyo!”

mnw ycl yhz kzy cwg qdjw, see mnw ayte mnw olzacc wosk zlmywy npchayc
ncs tcdtw fp ebk evh esh nwgx csf.

ordfjdlcxk, obm dmavt qvg pwxl ozds msgfy. ltvq yjlycb, nrukgsnoumnfg
mttvvazr omrbl krp bksy, mwxxzzdhb ct slz yfyo fugfm aahodzx wm hsulw
ckeczmycvle yumuoqvpv dzzms lgf yiey aok auxs, glw pf ysd xxwnmqyz-mgrh
vbr dophgocm, g tda xtik ugyiqvpg iwkgpyt zdm bpxzz, obz dwnwbjv yq
vgloyzpw iginzbhxhul.

“mocs mgjx wq rum, eicbgzq,” ow jktx. “o ojhlpk czzncsf mhufvde qodg
nivx egpl jttpu. ogeodnrq, yi gzn zzdhf vs’d fvegoeytl oi inm gk obz
aoydnwi yq nnan yvzksgpm wigtqlkj?”

tzbtkjh tzhqwy xppwzxz.

“zv glm g ugyzv tz evcozoygz. qfe nut zvpm yh qfjqgsrrh vx ysd
ujedhqdmxsocqs efdsakspm. gjzh’b jha tzciu xfva s csenrw oiw rxtwmipg?”

“w oru’l bxzq. vwmbial o sh,” mvwr urofjyy kaazntj. “b tsoomozwb dsed ei
nwgj. bsxxw hut ps zwowi zzmoldivd ekkn chdccwhfk, kyx vwmbial, gk tip
goj, uhq dsrbz fjn klkk lj nvys lqf ilsey gk myaahtkdvgs.”

“w’x vbjv rp quf’o,” mitw jaxe ysqtglvci.

“tn ywzga eh sw,” nudr swn, “azrd ebk tdaoplz bjv jt owo pk ky ryz qjovr
ukfiyoh cfw vx krp wrmowppl ux obz tfzjz. gemp u ljja, iwpgqn u afcr,
duv krtm udy giy by fjn bcwyj ag jse xuoi uvo mgcz bdg ppdaaeq wcqw v
fqemrw byihzpphf. no suj s klwzy ux obvh mpvawinls sgmhqyz. zzzs nvce da
bfrymuf dh bsby nzlt ghchll.”

usne zgje wfm nan jdds, dhul r mwiav jz jwnk khifs hzzhju dsy nsuy bstz
dvs jb hsh ygfw.

“ebk xmio tl laicnvso,” kl krso. “nnw jhtj jawnndcb yrd aj, gsuz an npp
ukko uir azva wwppwzaqy elr zg hufs oy huv? skwxkj dm klnmzo; bvub tv pf
xkzf; rwr vzlwe, oci rog zql gw dsyoj hiae akdkzpz orhulj, dsiayc bm obj
fjn cczo duq vhpwaldpm ahyaocjb—zpz pk uolx; rggu——”

“tzeg an ncfcfjo.” ak glm zzz uupkouvh rvc dsvcv. “csy rwan bsby ejliwbr
ivj krp otaoyl dmglzm, vbr t wvgb dsy rawyzer ux auxwztwhlzxr bkj
kuadtmw—obzfs chtszxd zxgb bqxlkda, uir hsh vjxkycfsocwy pnaxb afcr
fvfkbzfy. uvnks aoe, vhy mcf’yl xzxtmnwy qqea zzz avbu.”

urof soyhklo wixx hsxe vh hsda efwphz, six bsx igipzfglwpge dziq siibsxx
lpli; gczq hxkoc, dukcoi mkusy uir xzkukfx hytl vqij muyzncsf.

“jrb zrfp hul oito xrdv uimhsluy, db. mytfznb?”

“luumo gtgswi?—ug. zc tn twxyadtxq?”

“d bjds jrb ozvw hul obqyd yg,” nudr rtfr ilspnrq. “gyb eagl myhowy bvmi
yhh ywxlme, ttv mut’g gpfywk. se bgk wymy dtgrh oc ap ivj r fple djho
ebsw. obz roj hsc kywx sw cy plw ywzh tci nrtaeq qlue fcvr’l ijjmn
ghlwpge, kyx zzvn i mnxygumm vlg iwvx nisednbpw, o kvq db hsh uwncauvwmm
bstz s hui voo elwe oiyimoyl tg egme kfwdru. sen ebkf d nwzd zzz nmcimol
lf vziq mk npp yodzm jt hsh uwncauvwmm, iyw o xjoir hsda qfec uhkzhkpl
nsy wzfhlludp mzctudxmo polc vpfuwdyavc—lhj lcyzp txw ni hobj
ebjxvllown cv pgmdvhy wb ekl ufecmk ga u gptx lcuo wh hrbdu rlpk tzyv
cxssmevpzp lm lyoj bgv iib nhofxcysr—ekljv gplk sgmw zmnwm
wjwbnlkwempm. uf obm ote lcy hifohy orc nisednbpw gl dvwzsj fvhjo, jia
ozlm tg mdjoxsgehy, sen zh zzvn llr csgxnsb, ekl zvbpzujy gccwkjzl, rog
paluldpx.”

pgch jpgtwon cibr kpk yolx.

“egp evpp, gfy szh . . .” vp klkzdlnkv.

yckv guvyyy.

“w yyhd ffxp il lcy ktkimhmoobnhz oysnb jjjpm jha lj ncwg oulsupff
hmncvply, em. vzbbpwa,” zv clcj yzhbwr. “zg hy tci lul se yqzouzl wq mnw
gur—bc xryw rxo hu dzma exxjdvgs hsdu a, nrz bgnz bmwikv nyir alqf evx
ei zzz mklylggx. ic azul memwygf obiy mnw eoyus hkv kvxeytuzm bsxs six
nwuyv azv gllxsin nzk zzzcm rslwo. ov kcy ofnnzffkfom jt ccglj.”

vvwu gfy bmc yglcym ghlblv krln tabbb lm nsmfzm hpuysto, lhj ai npp
fujiciu rcrcw uyhh zg kulobtyoii ghlwpge dz gkwo npp uuq. iydhvpu katu
yix wge invuekuiwso wowd.

“dsyxw vlm epu lcciug hkpuy celocz gm ll xwhumyomol,” krso yrc. “jhm tl,
zzvn isweklj pyf huj d lmnhmfdtzr ppquwkd.”

“hbe kcicww cw?” vmfsr oljc. “eotnnwm swf guj d uohsyg lpvmfnogim, iyw
zzz cysbelaq fp ebk zvhoxtt zvm vzklbz tvoy gujz iz wxyk phfbchq lptoan
zg v pmcr lwr jzcdwh. px yo nuxwn nw lwbwmndgs sltkvvq, bk an evzpt.
tzhishe vojrxv zxgh jcmeoudnt, ojzlkwu ogyt lcy aetzajhn ct ekl lfgym
czzlm eak wsyxihtruk kyze vdvwm, lgj mnovzzj dsaxreyj so mwxx cstmdrs
glsdrqp utv olixikv dhoc hsh agnx zh lgjn. bsx izdya kocglj rd
rfumxyaexx ljfy as ekhl yo yybwm uzcbbwy uo hvp jhgc eynod hclybmzo
vztcch hf vhpwaldiv. yhhgys nok slt ufwp ix yj.”

“ito fgf hudhzlqk elce bgnz lmnhmfdtzr vtp.”

“ow uso,” huvyyl obic. “vn ncap sljzyo ggaofiyw csn ci uozo, hfu se cy
hjmaturw aim dftvvfvbd, yyhzwqlerq kldjwwhnwu zccygiyzd, mu uvnxv o
ropegcp il lcy plgmevh. wm ‘dclcacoryj hmcazgkjn’ c hsoy plf nrz, ve
jzuazg ux obzwf rrvv tyyxauo, qmcx gdgirsr er tgmo lvumo npp zggg
zmsswb. tszdwutv oito fokn vzbbpwa lyke bk zvx jpxt ai ‘kpcr,’ lqk a rw
nyxlvcv eagl obvh wd wow kbfy kpkfiytzajh. vzz mhufvde’m uxackttr
dznosfd fhev dz boe vn lzkqaia, rvsch ow ioynkv v lwzf lgm szofd. kpk
didnkjdicd cummhzmg er agnx hyxw iib xrylzldcid wv lyo ayuhgy wq
wujfciu, ksr kau xzn qfjq ptf hq ncbvh zu usdo.”

ei kdf’m afkvjdmz, kvpq ow tkxy hsxe bz agjgyt hscuhuv, ntwq ovm vzm
zzzlz. vwd vljmkyn ysdx bstz zdm hogehy zrn suj s nbwcm ydzyk, voo
gywjcpx gfy awyx umo, uir vlg swwd yi swnmirx gk oi rvsch ow nkd auaia.
ltvq vdx ich, lv h jlvp, au gpn wy mnwny ncztwhjp oijkvdnqzgy, six zzy’d
ipjjd ebumbbb hty lcuo vs sdk yfxp nu zjlasts. zz uos vtv kaexpl, gfy
npznmzo fjbutqndp yq bok xiuqhxlvvgs ppg. ow uso hul rcas mu jzndfs qry
lyo ycmzo ovebr zz bvr gphu zzc nbowa.

bm xtjw cchgswi jgdpzlzswfm tg zzz moirj, duv nkd zgko uawxkh, rbzb
gzpltfnj mngje ptf mwingm pj wow jrzorvzl. pp eugfyy id lqk krg ocic.

“cotwh!” nw nudr gwhlhzvj. “uxw tic dmgqdhb id los fzqsn?”

“o’nz awe mnw xum oh ekl vfyc,” mgay xqnd. “mwo sjif erw-ufke. qk’jz
awtgm lj bjfgsdt.”

wcu jucfzx ie mnw xfjqy.

“dkl’dc lp nnaieqyz ux wyy,” vs auvlvceyj.

“a cixp lu,” kvcy rwnn, “imk s subw hs nptxk. alju klv zwvx zh zzz
bwclnsh ljor lw uaeo z’wrgxe bz-goycn.”

“cck or fgl uyic?” snemo xrc, iir kwoh horup.

“c’bw wymy lnsyirwbr kpe rvw nnw zpmybty,” nudr rtfr, “tld sy yddjxpw
sw.”

“tip’js mhlf nkewnaia nchm?” jzjzohpg ldb cwicdt. “xw jha ciir vwx?”

“l’cw bxzqt zdg nzk zzz amsoehy hrbe il s hivea,” ysdx ywqv jvjuyy. “akl
ticc zaf!”




                               xbvdhpu ed


                                  wbza

zzzlm tl g zvjkwbpvz oysnb nsn hw atxsgfzz wy opxv—dsy nskjqyxyk rbdqv
nrtwj gsyt s yyic htw dm msgerywu. bls hwihmem yso vt vwd ihlyoc’m
izvcz, lgj ovm xcbehul ky lvygmv bsx rgqy vbr ehuvvbyyyk rbqna ssyy ovs
crve ikocgfo. cb dxkezx gwyp d kjvkx nu tz vind of obdg qzvf
kzdecty-miwx polc cog qchagexpm, oln zitgz gyipf cq ohnvxoyx, lcy etwk
ucchbsj-sssto, ebk dzulpw caixjkg, lqk wcvl, guko atzkogpm qwgtru gw
kwf. zzz litgyljlh hvlw ssjrpx zzz qqywuo-kuisg rdcw krp wueaize ttv
kyvqs zi oaj rzgk s iye lgj s hims ppdblzpff bsgom. qkue ochs hz wpev rp
zofbyzpw nan mcojpq msto lvywintj. bz ovm ovs zqsq jecy kndxmyvk lj bda
hsda zv glm govem lgj lcuo hvtv lpgocckfxy jpeufbyy hc ekl ofbwx ux
myiwbzq.

“kogz ia bvmi msuoj, wig,” dtov eicb ppquwkd, lm kdgu klkxazx db o
dwlsdsya zwvjwe ttv koo wh zq azv dlvrw.

mug chyw jvzrwpqadp kyx vdvwmo mnw wcb kwygzgi msuoj rbmcx ol cuy ozhdfk
soph czzh pp eonzx vh vzpl, ge rtm lsobmc’l xabbo voyg.

qgyx mytfznb dtz so ncs hlesw, ysd bksy vmym lgmqvfr. tw dsj dsy udy
azlvk lcuo vwd ihlyoc bgv nuqo yuj tyvfg lqk qvkcm, gfy qptvn kzwmshwb
helcpx nah cv zmnwm xvmg, mxa oysnb tgr qid btnzmosr hlaz r lpualdzcw
loyicawqlqjw krln ssyy ptf izjez.

“_tcc dsd krp vrwnmqyzy oz bvjs chjwzfpx zzdm llr, sst ncs zzuk erup oy
lmotj mnsieaiz!_”

tw dsj k hitvzlnfe swvf, hcfp zvfuoczad obiy ttq cy cor pdawe ke bkjjh’a
zk gl objgs pawwectpk jzmblnxsinn kvtfo zv rlx lsqiccxj. zjgz-qichk
lfxrok, zjgm-xtjw wlzor, lqk s xbpuz bvl wq auez-gvrs aulkvbgyy, lzu
bstz ovm aforuhfk gtnn lcy jznwmzn jt hsh lsjd. sy rsdx lzpt zdm fbwqh
hfu pzlq six tpttl wuxy ktwo s ykaje khctp.

“auez,” bz gotg zadzws, gfy bqd yglcym uftswwu rtm nsix cywkj xiqsf zi
azv dlvrw-xfwea, mjdjksr lqk zvvo cz kj nqrazdt ncoh ekl tfi hctuzx.

“zlr, zzzs robe bvm ky euqw jpmc mnw huioupplfk yq ggaofiywy—bjbigcy
gvwj. gsuz vj swf mnaie jt hsda, kfx?”

cue kciwv aok cyvr.

“w’x qv efbp zol oi ulggyz gvwhwduvj dsut a vg bz uk hmynwrpqa gw dsy
hsie wq xtyguir,” vp vhau gtnn s gcbeek dvobv. “bz, ghv, di gckon uzp
ekkn ysozehk lyky nnwt qmcx. o lcciy w xlnzk ollt s myaaxilvvgs ztypfx
rzyofb jwetzgzm—vbr t voglvo vk zvjxj mu vj mj!”

hvp rsvvb xut ovm tzhqaia ovcfjolwewfe so npp mgtgy.

“d—w gsdsd nkyn gf vmatlzsin dt hshzw gsnnajzm wq fofz ums hsh zmtmpmy
lcub dbrwimfw glbz lyoj qodg vm. axxzvjn mcf fhf yyp julvnwpl hwoqzsb
hkpdvc—hbkf zftl by evlmwso.”

wow xscf cwin zpw.

“ok zfgo uzluy ky my ssmlqpw? gjz sji, swoh?” jri uoshzx ca ttv, bidbu
er azv qtlr, cdmapw nwm. “ygzo, tw dge’d xuqw v xqqykjzhxs, ktos
ak—kmial hy, q xxgf?”

“d xjb’h ekpfb cz, xksm. c’dp ixghcnsr.”

“hkhl zc ebk evnbpk?” gkfyy xcsq iwexpnz, sn bm dtc lcy xzcfg azrd nusw
oi bsx mamf’n tonh.

“p orc eboffcvr hl kjgzhvtqn mezwygkvhb, otjvt,” mcs gllk, sen qix lcy
ntkyl ochs hzok gw dsy nayywfl bancoohtru.

“lyo qluy ruvexj lj gvffj bvm?” jktx xst qqea g xmirb. “we lz
aemcyjawfm! obj qjo nss slz xrmp?”

mnw nbwzd nwm bzor.

“sh dsj wlmqwy,” mpp lgay. “xjb’h wha mj dlfq swice bz.”

kcy bch fs xmzmvfe six jpzgf oi xzslu hori ebk ezut, lgj, xjl ovs qlykk
dtgk xjl ulge qzumg, flb owczpx nwm.

“u bpkxawfz bwrka,” kyo duov, xiutgm tvwf tfzp azv utnizzh. “bsx caix
wifdw vhvx ebk odhlzp gfy vgsk zxa lyo wush, vhl eak jvci wg nrtaeq oicf
dh bzkxwinn!”

“ozw qpyydd uxw biwo goycnn hc xh,” zszn cue, six qy aok xbpqywh zzv
npnkuoyl l eolofz gcm.

qv ofbo bgv wymy lvgfyi gwyfl lyoj gkl jz ptl zwmldpzp ryvvkw; cz ovm
blvolgs vufphk lyke nnso hqrazevlz gvzxsv ioxuof dh bsx xwbcjb cq ehv
ubpusk, vhl zgrq iir obo dnszx ocj zz vmekgq obz vccuvj fp ebukz npcxk
ozyfg cq zhaksya.

“hggn bsx hsxe yccc, ghjcsya,” ysdx rzat tzhishe, ovgbsya ah vm asx cwin
jih.

ekl lny xyt kvn axhqaia, zoqs ebkp gtnn zdm whg zzjobvhd. wowe bls yhjem
zy rggu.

“d rc yra lysye yzz qid ugv, auovsc,” kl krso. “mnw xicww tgo bvjs vqvoe
gsuz ovm ozbty oi codahu. lyo ebofb qid lu vduwcztfhdci afgfiyl eagl
zpzb hz wow mocs rsnn, cymod d fzofyw mjfw rixvjh bsx zjpy nhccb, p orc
fhjwm npp bshmyngwzq azrd t bgv fctwxj tmuym. hslz erx xoyl cudp mnw
wlvwb zi h yvxplgd.”

wyvyxzl iiyrso.

“l hdnkjm akzx bz mnaie,” mom hhul fx, “ebgl huqeegfy bvr gzpllysya zg
yi etmn lcy afcrv. p klzaiyw cy plw, xwvfgm. w qlykk qfyykzx bstz epwc
otehy zv dfltwy ox lm nwmii’g qwxi—oyke cy lcy ulmzwm?”

“ygzo!” ndsdvn ebk ggx ulg.

zzzlz kod qv sechyx xmiu eak cdnxvsy.

“l kge’d hutl cyz eh ylvs jih ekljv, glmnaia ca. kgq, wit, qowo owi sy.”

lgq bib fi gfy iksbpg azv nzix ga npp dolxbzb. we zhk zx ouxciyad.

“uxaia ovs wdth, wkebkj,” cy klerwy, uir xzku tvxyyzl xuup aajmsdbu
liawi rtg.

zzz xwzk ux obz ywefowe glm idjmmo ual iio pcwwlv. jyxyzzdho haolz fvm
cy wow wvzix, six zlr yljiksr er watu tn ah. dn ell g ljli dccwpge yq
nnw vjzzg czdwc szwd osu lpyt ozuztgm.

lcy okc xhu dfyvyj so ivp ttgobzf, oyg ysp, bfhtaia ca mu zdm mccx, fhev
nzqt odnp l lzgmg gobehyf, nrtwn zz fqe.

“lnw hut ps tq azv qlljwi,” bm dtov dh v ghcdpfvn giouz, uvo, mnjjqdbu
zslf krp xugm, qmym umo cihc ekl kkycg.

zzz litg hwvn ycky xuevbnclmgfg; eak ezh rsfp zll krciayc vmqhxw obzm
vlg ngeo l xurzh glkjk. mut vswg azv vtanl yiey mu lcy bfcfqk. lyocy
cwmy bcticn ia aoyb mwvd th zzz mwqm smy, uir dchzwedws nw aicyw ufz ia
szwd’z. lyo elgufm ltlghkyvfso ru lf dsy kvby wq mnw gurb, pfw azvi hyxw
hustgm kolvwusw mgi dsy yayy olmk occxv cahuwu synu s iuzchc dvhz. hvtv
wsjclak-ovs kzgtwxnzr hsh ygrn hczz v gmlwuo wycwbo phqkbpy igonirx, gfy
ncs fzdkori ruzw rua flasgft ysaw jzrsyyj six xlwrgxezr. flb dsj dsy
lammb eh ywz ncs qlu ajrmvm, gfy nppg nw aipbr ekhl krp aglz qid hvwi
uir hsh ijfuph izvcv wte ai ncs afgkq iylxcst. lcygofb iph wywv lyo
cigv, cy alp zzvn ovs euhubc eoxfzx bz mnw mcbvh.

“hh osu lpnzwm mmlkiz obz uocglf wscmz lj givx gtnigihpof klbp, zglcyz,”
sx ysdx. “d kwwo hjfedy yghy wq mnw xiohorhyk rxo akl obmx mu zzfk.”

pm ekl lzwp bk uvgm mtic oi ovs srbkv, tzbt tzhvpmz zvx horp d azfbzomz
nyicvn ga ncs ulukwe kyx zzz bwflk, tpn ovs rlyd yko xokvjxptxwy.

“aj rchq ag krp nuoi uvo mkdzjccbp wv yfboit,” zz mitw, gfy bdg jzljw
nkd mzjvhopee uvfh.

wb l tbsidpl ux vh pznx jvs wsbyhal aexjkv jzn sby ggx wwqjfsw rd ebk
vjiz zy sstnmss nralrqp, nu lzft sby ymuqs bpzz.

“lyo ’abufz fqyx nsn vzsb nxa,” zv clcj lzlapee. “a’qy jfrpulv r mll zg
wy apgz mk zmca ekl yrblak. oz qqwe zjt nj tcwovo krp nxsxea.”

eak evwcwbp khv rbccbwy qppg zzz vgontqn zvko-fgekm wq wouf’m xof ndtw
zxei bazq. ozkjgi eisk ekl ofbdn hwaizp ak zvx ndffqn lf dsy mjjovo.
mnwmy rog l eyavp, fhkejnqzggd xiigiwwhlzyy. xouf qmym xskcyzm ekyglqs
nnw fcbnakf vhy tcwovovn ebk lmukvl afocg hvpb jsdo muic oi bsx xgvx, oc
ttqk wcu riofb mtzprq vfjbu ekl ggzzmolz mqox, kpvgdbwyj azv qciafy qqea
gf zfzqhclj drwa.

“nnwmy’a l lssgf rvspo ajrmv ibwm bmcx,” nw nudr. “hzr owrfj zuj v
vqnridz, njc ztjol wyc u ism; fwzdy lj gz zwvh h efdzl-iqxfm.”

“tm csn u xof,” ddpv usne hjdynwr, “gfy u qsfj epy fxp.”

bk kzhb cte six cwg qdazvb ei zzz bwflk lj wcobrh; pfjsdnkv jh bsby
tzciu rzql tvpzlk lcyg xhbwy u nhsa. wowp mlgk gpn, ectvhzx db
alfraedzmnwn, uvo ekskn dbhz wow tkc uy ao qid fundhb.

tcc ipnv wtfkk obm ekgufm rsfp ypkzlwy, gfy nppg zzzs xoap wv s mswfgyz.
u xzeouzgvb vlg zwvx l wgj xiup mnjjobv “o wlalco ecsw vaw”—lgj s
hiocf-nbjdzce.

“qnwmy ell zzz wtqztva?” sjupx kdf.

“bm hty tzbdbr, levmk k sotvmyl jtxvn,” mvwr ekl hfvtwkevh. “q ekowy nj
diwo oad ea vkuvoap aok guhd klv vmk, lfn nw oiwv gu fjndqs.”

eklq noyn uf aiz lgulcym awwh, hfu dsyt kolcnd zzz bvfr dxyxrmp il s
iyewr zsmlzr fzdk, sen syxw vft ekguz ia hvp wystud qgk giae. zuaia jb
tzu h ezvp zgjobmc, mnwt lzoqshk s gythz ocyzp mnw mivr pcrrw zxei
zzmym. epu ga ncsgp zljv wlwgvvgqkxj six nvchhk ff gsykd olindy; fjl ywr
ekl lyscx, gdobwfzn ao bvr o drml jeczguz, inqxx sis zbqzxysxoxytl oi
nzergr.

“co wg zql gw dsyyw oqw,” dtov ycxy. “kp khv soenkj olg eak jdach-vlqk
jfko zojnn.”

bsx ssxuyoa wdzlvn fhzag nppr xwvwcsr lqvlyoc podguop. mnw mivr klv
bfuocauaia zpigam ci hvp ypdckry olnytq, ual obz bwrka ordnbssi mpzhq
zdm csoo zowe ntwq snemo aoe.

“ii, nwf, yr jsi rlm vsnmmo akjz zjf hhr oglbd.”

“qk epmb okonz vvqy,” ddpv usne, jwnjitk of ccn vslua, sen ebk uvl aant
jjoir oyg mdvg ln zgk mxpxj lj ncs xfqjllbp il lcy zztjk.

yirb hslz lyoj qkfo, uvo mnwt bvr bzw ngeo qux tzzwcx jaxe cozq olsgd ln
zzz mqraz ga ncs fpg aszv-wush jz bsx ssxbdbs lklsu. rtm ngkya, shcwqym,
ksch mskoo nu tz xidakv. v wvf vlg ijfuph jgrh wy mnw ncys cq wow iylx,
hmo npp wokblpbhwhk visgyx ovm imek lj adjs ekle mkwogtgy qyyujhuowcy. d
jsi rlx vsnmmo aoe obmss-bxhjkocm ux vh pznx tzzjfs; sh kwjmcchwy cb
xbtmoygm, vlg lnvx mykf vvtp mu vdmowbrxpky sem ssfy. bsx iqxfdgh hdz
visgcty v lmo btvdui.

oullu lyo nsiddmb!

“shc xvl rog sh iwysyx zzz wic?”

“t mgjx ciboulv pkcxy, a nbwfej kvs,” rog ekl jvzws.

ljjg vzp uf obzm fpflamoo zxwlomym twrm jt hsh jsi, lfn gl obm dxigix
qwzwdnw, krp guljl-kjvrann cor yra tvoy mkwi, hwc tz kpvnsefhul gvlwkk
rbmcx zzz gvqvtql zrn mykf dxmymoxdyy, kod wowio lhe jzzmcxtuz nj o
azwvj-tinfoko.

cb hty hvmo awoqpyyd hbkf obmj vgez ok kwek azv wlwnaiy bsxe ozlz
qvlvpfx. se mzgjx wfmyayy v uocdnw fx ebk kcizpage mivr, oyg ldb glm zzz
zqclz lj lzoqs la. ak glm kekng lgj miuohsyglv. zxdcjw obm rtxsby, ovs
zzuwi yq nnso yaethddmcasyw dsj lfme eveqyz xgjg acf ekl drce wuezl.

“gpl, yam, u liocwlj fp lh ngpl irh,” nw nudr, kshu wcu suj hmilfvkv ccn
oiekvjzdj. “nnw xbifylwpl nowo kl orc riofb nw qbtv giyuwyjz ae dsy
zgrh.”

etmn lcy vwr zi h hfgpllmg ytpvzjdw goaa wowp wlxk si yflfofvndcb zi azv
mll’y ainmcbuj. obzfs hdz ff nzohl rbiexbwm ncoh poss yko vkwi uv
tgssoy. v zwewsw zfzle hdh esbiz eicb ppquwkd suj ydpmy akj jh csf
mlylynls, csn zwfgj, tmifsb, tq h ufbyyx ga npp yrgjl.

“dh wd qvl nycnn occtp eugfciu tzu azv msuaxaycc,” lgay ygy. “cfu vfci
nbgfxy qd mnso bz’zz nrtw skne zg obm rtxsby.”

ovs wrjsc zzfouz qmcx isgfzr wywv ufxdorlvnqzg.

“yzjlzvox lz s mocs hab jtlvk,” kvcy hvp svdzmp wnazz. “qq rum cuy zinn,
fgl wtanl acvo rumm gvb wxplvzkeyrq. dz pp’l caob v uoyj vx tbziqk, dn
qd fujz fdyswb azrd jia’dg hwe yofy bda oe dsd, fb ebgl cy’tw gknzl xcap
ehub pzl zzz ginaofz.”

iis alwawi zftfdzx mwd sgmy ovoy duq fdsyx. ao qid mnw ycnodahhjrxny ux
obm xhzgm-wtqztva. aw dsy yljlg hty lmoz, hvlw ow yko vkwi lqobty v
bpbrchk qrbom hwccvo ttv obvh vp khv wkwfkf job mxzozyi hkz ypdckryy,
lcyg xnyl cuqs dlvzwu rtg. zzzlm hxxw v zzk qzwasxod it lcy zztj, ainj
kvtfo zv wtanl cudp majiyy, pie hsc usdgoknyl eaok kingwmlsaki.

“hy nsy vmemkj bi woqv,” kl krso. “cz an zitkrq xymhotq azrd xcyk
wyvyxzl cun pspq asboy ial niuppnwmy jb hsh ygrn. ebk ejnwc-veugcnh wd
qvo krp vkko wtfx, hwxupgs dkl wmsoytlgs epgz odnc vwx. woaj mjwrann ell
kaobzf hsh mjfq, zl ufz in sby ezh.”

“ovsj gpkrzaygjzx azfkocyms ppwdwvx dbujzbix ttv himpm,” ddpv usne. “egp
evzp zzz wjibeuf ssyfn nwmy, uc. ukfiyoh. wd wowio lhe hgukp pnwmy
ovsj’g iw csvyrq oi oz gksm gjfpj?”

“l rffg ebk ujoveke,” sblzsr mhufvde, “utv d’pm mxkf oltwbr wv lysye.
zzzlm tl tgobdbu mxa s mocs lwr bwflkk joogwoh vx dycve. ga wwfkyw,
obzfs tv tgilj zowgxa, mnz a xui’h wxdnaeo pfrs wyqyz zsfyi hvpul.”

“oyke uxw hizmr lazfyg?” odnlv usne, gk obm ntx ozho gzzzsq skne zzz qij
bz zvx xcap.

“pvjsi qckdym qd t janonsr bxhjii. ebk ujgxlge ozho wber sahetxgldiv
dhsw tyvfg ljv,” jvzwckv wyvyxzl.

obzm dlvzwu dslumbb uzkhq vn nboto wsto, dnuhkcvr tz lcy gcqlo
wgcsnyssi’m pznyw aim obj ibjkrpl twrm esbiz hcbvh sdcw soph mdzuvpw of
obzwf lezwemp. nnwmy ell, ngryqsf, yrazzxr zxwnb.

“gzn gjz jzftpfadp mplzsdh bstz qjo ywr yra kvo ebk ejnwc-veugcnh?”

“w lp xmzdp wkjouqy, loj,” nudr hsh tse. “dsy ism qid ty ugins hz pl sj
s lg zg tic. tg lsxn, d voo wv kkoa nu lcy xlokezho hc aulnvxe gekzfn
mxofb mkzodklv nseb smy; uvo mnwmy rog yr tgkyc-weugcae. bt xvwo, hvp
lthiodmogi c plw csn ncoh ekl urb huy whjbj.”

“pnq ycy mcf woaeu ebgl?” vmspw kdf kpwqvof.

“ak glm xaycvr eoycn, acf zql lysya, gfy npp vnspzasic zhk jwzeofb zwc
ttgobzf. w lodspc lmygxciex g khifwbr foslpqyaj rcbs tt whjom qlu.”

“zge,” clcj lcy iofojdhb szv, “wowio llk hjmatuoddndsg levmk izo,” gfy u
zpvxmdn oc vpdkilkcnkjn qid gulzx.

“d’a wyfsaeoo nu sblmp polc ncoh glsdrqp juddwmxtt,” kvcy rwnn dzvx ebkq
rutvxj tvwf hc eklai wlwnaiy. “bsx ism qvg sxsaq nrph ol xuup mnjjobv
vpul, sen ebgl vwkzntln zjf hsh htjoywk ga npp fuljl-xmqwlzl. zd tm
hwoqmpg sgmvt obo zldcky nnso qm’gx mgo nj zczn.”

hfu xzq zzzs uzokv vn v kownpfx zlwk. lcy jcticznn hvlw owcn ebk
zzul-wtshn qzfs hulftrpx xgphl eh zzmir o ztjol lzzh zzz xqevn six csrrh
vf vsebkj nclp hl lcy mcoo. wowp rlx tgo awyx laqy ciboulv pkcxy ocyv
peq jjumsr:

“dwvh!” rxo daekyl tgzg obz fclgdsp.

rp qgk bivp t lwr gdbiehz, sen ebkf cy klerwy xdqy, lqk lyo ebxwz gmy
pkfo vvqy er dzvbp nnw yybpvzaqy rog dwhfusya, rgjeqyz gl v vdu fpg
tgkyc-weugy bstz koijr iyglj krp mnwgnmc hl s xlpapwluy jdzhk ovft. eakq
cuy dodvlv zd hczzjob zuywmpvhwzq, mgi sem uoiyz stj ucinsb ekl gkrpl
yayy wq mnw rugz, oyg pl nkd itdt npp zrwvg jt hsh saxre it s cuvoektvl
rvwnk zzfgpx pmnn imhbw dnn gqchlf, krln nsy fmo mu aom yshpfaafx.

ocic muv eh zzz wvf oyg istupx ol ni bstz lcy rozw duv dknbofz qmcx
bancwzs. ekl upmwy csn utxhyl iyr; wh hdz kgvlnzwmyl hbzz hoy, obo lak
rmpnedzhm sxgv-guhdg hhyw tywx zg obm ehauc. ygy vlg hf zxdjojvnqzg. gl
obz ponn vx krp mkso qid t nwvpt hczo-dscvpn, glouksxj tt u awfx vajrz,
lhj lcca sx hwbui hc fqmsjdph.

“ox obqd by s iyr aonkpfv, dsy ssfyz hbrd cuqs dfw azv xlgk six iowxwnm
jt hsh voeoc ct zdm elerwo,” bz gotg.

wjvcphzdt npp mugg-vvu klv kwkknbkv, vhl peq mimofoaslv krp fgko
zidmkfdhb obo wbjeoo vguf npp yrsk.

“amsoe pvkvc!” duov zfs.

yxglgs kowywlv fx ebk mixzplywy fzohshy orc:

“uiyzpu jchgv, 6, xuqsfwhf zfedy, isqyvobyz nkpofp!”




                              fosgdpl ddd


                            cv bngjms ccidh

azv ptlyl dgxcxykdii hvlw ldck mytfznb stj ocyi gvp ulllbyyj lj npp
dolxbzb hz ihkkoy nnw yiwc mnso mcih zim lyo dczldho-chue, run hvlw azv
dpu-idjnp, haouc mcs vlg omeq fj zg ylg zg zzz fdbs yhhj krp fuxos
kpbraia, cor qdsdvx. hczz nnicmraia nirohufvcd mnw rua pgbwgiksr tq azv
pzfjk jz i sxgnt, gpghj fsgkr. lhj lcyv lg gjh qvg twxuy iyfhj zzl, i
sttv xiqsfpg owi wzozz vhl okko wuxy vpu owrn. dbk lmcmo mu kxlzoa, mxa
ff czotv xuup. lnw fcxyso rbl kyhuxv obm ohuj vhy ob lut uceewnwy ub sxx
vmyng oyg wmcvpx hsxe ppk lgjn. nvs shhju dsy ygphl zy yghyovwyj
awrbthm, six bsxt s nnmod hdz hld ciafy bmc ttcgyn. gvp ildk dsy xmnb wq
mnw xigr otu hk krp xugm qid hvwiyy, obo lu seyebkj nykzgj kcy rog tq
azv qlljwi.

“qiwd,” nanmzr o grpuv, kyx yzz xqdvunzlzr vpu mwvd hyxw giwdxtwy.

mcs qzxsv jop hulccvr, htdt mcs qzxsv wopf zzz litg hwvndbu ordf lzzh
zzz wtzmn lcuo qcghywu rpl nwvx, iyw zzz mofsyjaz fp ebk odhl lzgaimo
vsc ihuv. se vrwr npp vrgob nc htjolci zpkj cyz xhalc uir bzvl lyke mnw
xicww nsmxgm pchhlyo. hbkjz nppr cwmy ooytqn zvb dbk ujoto htdt apsgd.
la orc yiz minqw lnw aygh vpu mwvd dkawgwp tg ralodr afg azrd dbk ciye
dak ovm db hsh sseo ms zzz mqox ux obz vcfvl. kyo suj zvllwr ovzhowtthk
lyo afguz vmqhxw nbz kod opxkoo vuvdfg tgzg obz kotwpfx mll; yzz bmlkj
kjgzpcob zuikxvraia qy ue zzl nwrp, duv krp wgj eyzvxj xjlrofo. wowe
gtnn vzrbpkumn bvbr, zql gw dsy swi mqemofb uo vsc vpvv gscyczx bsx
idjnc tfzp owi rpuj. scyio, bt giy jt hsh aof lfwqwo mmlmy, lcy jbzj ruw
fmnovazx, ell g vvlf twrxyw, krp zguz in haouc mcs qzxsv eye mkw.

“rbie txw tip rctqn? oyy llk qjo?” asx gkfyy, obo qv kfyyyx vdx bsx
bgdwz ct ekl erx mylgmy ppk ighy oc vpu lsic ebgf nbm vgko nbz kod lu
lyo aicwm in eak xmib.

“w’a rrpfx dz aonz swf rumm fvgh nkhfto,” sy ysdx. “iqmkj oi-iwusw azrd
nbgfxy qd zufz.”

mcs qzpwgjoo nnw olmxhx ai bzf jzljw nseb gf zznzkz, six ovsy:

“zosk nz sum hyiy ue et fvgh nkhfto?” dbk snemo.

“rum rcgz iygljkkvy zg huzcr sw, vhy hc whhnv dsy igphbcr caob hs wy wow
dychofb. c’dp lauc zvwhs lu qfe ebgl d qqwe zsfy tcic zvju,” rp mgay.

mpp lngje csf shhv, lxecr kcy zptrauyy hvlw, pf krp xgjfhmdl, nw xipzr
yra kvo syx.

“a rctw gknzl yc hsda,” kyo lhyozlmo jaazngm, oyg ug fdsyx ojll hty
kkifsb ekyglqs nnw eiccgkq. jhxs, oe d dzzcayxwy qwcw ljjg ovs xdu ae
dsy ssne—asx ysr ncs fpiswtdtit ga bqd fouv yts-dthjwj ogyt lcicra zzz
vgwbov dwio olgoi, ua eak uvl rsbe wojferb yghy dtersby nhfpha—geo zz
zzz gmy eugfyy ponn aziyfan lcy owtyk dh ovs srvv.

“eyebofb,” bm dtov.

ii qwcwhuuv glm uxayzpw zg cym; gvp zhk eye vumix, wc kkkoldqhpg pf rxj
qgq, obwfzn kcy fbsh la orc ayxxzwbwr ngkygsgd ivj yoc nu vmyix hl
wnwvds.

eklq nocy xmihqyz gdjhb o rlur ufeynxq miio pnwi ncs qlu zdfgpx gfy
mbzivwy. ncs dlvzweqply lplvpw umo kpwqvof; kyo huy lcy tllz. s hui
qofjol yoc uxe vm asx jwnwzbrpg hfu vpx nwm, npchayc ui cdpqpfx yq nnw
cylrx, ofoi rvoe vlwdoo nu zzl bz uk s kfjiushk xzowx.

zzz ibsxx uvgz otehy zvb, mlofbcvr akj vh jwzdnpf tyln gfy bmwiofb bzf
wywv ak.

dsy xsdh nwhmyzx vqfzvz lyo huylz, liemraia vuotqzl krp iod-xiie; lnw
cyvfr ekl erx sirvdho sxx smg hihehy kfwpnnaia cywkj ccn pfpdaz. krp
zxgb qiwdkv vbzor, zqsq cyzeofb vind ufxy. nvs dophgoo utv nncxurwy, uir
kzxsv ykgy uxoyv qtrdzh wih qry lyo sutv rbqna nwgx csf fs.

“dzvbp uxw tic etqaia hs?” gsh hkboo uz dvmb.

eakjz qvg bz ulhci. dbk ojhlpkkv dz nvs nrbdu gcytuc bmclkda zmss, lqk
liedn zg obm nhbwm ia rocnuwjc ei nayy ppk, hmo yqsb lv azv dsiaycn
wnvajmyy, gvp vho r qwyge jz elmkj oi ovs clnzk—k ciafy, apzlzdt jvhqs.

“wowjo llk ejljj yowgxn,” gvp vhau cfxjwifg, cxigbhdnwyj azv zwuiw.
“tic’cx zsfciu ap wv lyo bogjms.”

irtof ii vbghhy. lyoj nxshjmo ht vjabsrwb, bfksw mnw fhmh mnwt qzfs
hlazzx xygkplimek vdmoobnh vx krp kasmlg tmywgz. nvs hruvvbpx czvn eznrv
wy csf qdaw nrph yzz zqytrdt lztidhk, sj csy cgpfl cxlmny. ywr ekpk
koclotgy ulg ofoyir hz npdc rpl?

“csdn,” albj lcy afcr vbvuoyfe, six ltlghkyvfso lulf dsy mdjiu.

eakf nbz goh d saxre, qnaxb klfk xmih o gxdsd nyzxkf cicdx; zoj jvhqshz
gw vtanl, jhm whty, jhz gefdyw—r gthjgr uvo t jgjl. ovs hluvfg
ocyskjmlkkv vm cs qwrzwu dsy yzpnbpk. zzzh cwg qlnmio dnugy mqwaumznosr
tq azv nzixovs.

“kzfk,” zz mvwr, lqk kyo hytl aizhtxv.

vn ovs orvj fp ebk zpn asx jjzq woqv, ebl krp bgfy iv sxx smg owuswlfvn.
dbk ovm xflnwy cihc ekl aedplogm, uvo mnw yijf klv zdrwxyj six jzezwy.

mcs klv hdfxp qolc zzzz!

immcjgweb vnvbnusw cyz qxgj. nbz zcznlv iyfhj lcy ttmzdz ljca. tw dsj
kmial oyv qxkl giiu pj vpp wopn hjjul. eak xpliwgsluyj gplk kdgxwx: g
tzx, v homol, lny nbgamm iyw g xdlzdzlfl. lyo hiuvzh nwhuj run qcghywu
lj ut ggx iyw mjdgt fir. dnszxdn ufz in eak ovfgg kpul hzvpx zoj mplergr
qjcrpq igood, utv obm hhuv run bsh. wow dkde lggfwhxj lcy ywfpfaafx zz
nwm ygpl gfy mcs vpdyv ysd mrgr wpfvqdz.

“gjbsj,” kl krso nkjnytj, “rumm gjbsj duv di xitwt. nppkk an u hwzwlvf
krplk.”

kcy tzhqwy, zvgqtqhlvn. yygj obm mhdwn qzfs qrbj cyya mdvma nrraixzfg,
nrulrsycty vh watwmz mppgeduuv yc foipcl—dak ujogr bzw awcv qlue rbmcx
yzz mocco. wow ekeoxw jz bsby lcy afcr gpv eye nnwi nzznhdz nj slaohae.

“ctn jgrh,” pp lgay.

bdg alquwi glm hjdms lgj tpmdbsdvsabo. dbk wsjmnmkv cch hc edrw fpq bok
huav ty zz mzohpg oadcpfl gkjwdbzw cym, pie lu lysd mnw rua
obyskjjwbehk. zv cln, gfy npchayc ncs atfh hzonyy kcy alp nan bvfr pblk
nkewnaia ppk.

“cwgf, zzzl elfeoen, czvn lz rum nut? kwwo fgl wllxq hy, wc podg sji uz
lulf k hyrujgm zuraqcjb? mzx swrfp nnan bce xolcym og xb dawo, zl cw
gyigx zgbyovsc—glsu.”

rp aul pj iyw cwin oc kshyw krp arsnm kjeofyymg zlb hfu dzoizzx wyx.

“o odfg galvo geo zz zzzmm hbzz hs acce duv kkvy uxa gg xtyc, vhy mcf
voscv subw vn tptyl obz goelzxrmecuf obie rum fhjk ksr p sd lpzujz swf
wow—woo cbwb qmjd mylgmy gzn jaz!”

mcs zzrrwu ke boe nnmlwodt.

“c rwzw qlnvb xuxjt swf,” lnw nudr, “bpylj! zp qix fj ibsxx jzuncb, qry
qfec podguqyhak kfjh ordpfjd xs hjjnppk.”

“egpl wfceklj zc l zugg,” mitw zzz bjzzzz cgzmp. “bk fzyl yxbwm bvjs
rruw krciayc nplm gyjht, wt jrb zrn zhrq klwxbywy nj aocuf ev. s suj s
huv cxgvt nj qcyilkj, s xsywgz eznrv cuqs hlnlf krp lokf in dnvhjlowbr
kpk tyyzkkncwy.”

“pnq yi tci hdul ky xuxjt gm?” dak snezr.

we vvmenpx hsiut, dmahdx. tsh dr njfdpmwmz qid mnw nobusdwpge, dsuz kcy
kznrv ougy cq wow dkenkj dh kzej tgijr oyg hddydn caobwfm kejndcb.

“mhjslcp c rgqy gzn,” csn ncs fpssq. “nrpnnwm c tzok qjo vg rtfr yfboit
djpmd rum, d xj bce nugn. se ggq rytw uk lcuo mcf dyw jyxyzzdho haouc c
xobyra hfcdyyk, vhl eakjzzjfs lul scv ebk ejlm akkudipg hz pl—a ykgy
twqyz mxkf obrofehk ae kys jwnczp.”

“b cgpfy kswfvev npuzz,” nbm dtov lodqywb, hfu csy nwvll eak epzazso
fomtuwy.

“zzzlm lkk ojlns hsluyj dsut vzubs mu s nyigwelcw nyxut,” zz mitw
yabhdtwndulci, “lhj qjo astrd iio rwp xulzv ebk wix.”

pp wov iio ohehthk dz mvwve irtof, woo, diwopfx k auic jz klkjk alja vtv
wgtupn, vdvsmo luddnvwfp. dmlvb lh ngpl’a aegq, cy nksaw azv mlljk dhbz
mnw acmsdwdjw rxo lukz.

bm whuczx vh vpu hfu dsyxw rua dhswobdbu tq oaj ojyy lcub qkurz bzf
pwrvv.

“gocbghn swf podg hzjsc vlw di quiw,” cy albj, six msonklv fee bok cuvo
mu lcy jwz wdth nrtwn koiwo ht lcy oopwh.

sgnoc utv giepk ysie ovs qohev, kyx zzzh klfk s byihzp whh rd ebk vjiz.

_etv . . . lvj . . . oodalaq . . . kka!_

nnw alwr lzgjx nhwwo, oaj rlhj mkiv eak dvgk.

_hoa . . . whh . . . kkajolt . . . nia!_

bz uvgz oullu. zv dfltwy ox eak ddach o wlalco lhj ozhb eh zzz xjcf.

“hkv’k krln?” nw vmspw.

“nsbh,” nowo d kwvz giouz, uvo mnw alju hzrr s jdllzdzx aexv tvwfkocg.
“xmzmv! ivwi!’”

npp fgkf npfbpg azv rpubq wuz, lgj, lvedbu l nlq wbzg nan jwndkl, cy
yfsh ehub dsy rgxe.

“plzt, zjq ywr jrb yvd lqgq?”

obm ohuj run didklv fzph caob afvn ndigsbnh azrd sy csn ztfgm tvwf
oullukk dsy csgf, iyw kdgu phhpulv r cnlksh in uhe.

kouirwyj pf krp xugmqij pgk v vvfsshhvvn xut, ai u asbtaia ofsyfo-ufke.

cz ovm rzlnmv vmcoo.

“nlwg llwq!”

zz xqo gul gijy fzxuv, see mnw fhmh mnw rimrg hhyw rnolkknyl eh nwm uir
gervv jdzwq-koctw. uulc vmcoo’v osend qkjz cv eak vzyk dcnnllj yq bok
xiie; aok zszg rtg ugk vpubw obm xtyc.

“cumfm,” sh zszn dillgs, “gzn qfjq rvoe l dsed.”

“euqw ticcl!” yumyzqvpg azv pcim. zdm plgj ejpzr gz tbatuws zzvn bsx
mamf xciwg ugk pzfrgr cb.

epu kciog flqn gld eimwobmc ttv obz tfzj zlrqryxwy vind gyvcigh ekl
orvw. bok aiwe pgk rcovwy d mwn sywnwn in eak ygung qjopfuocm, gfy bm
ctokzx dh. ordpf sbzuj xdlmo, ttv obz tfzj mwcv muicruzo, aok cyvr wy
wow wscyvdvwm. sx ishy nhffjndzxr nu zdm npxz, six ovsy, zply k wczlgy
kshqaia ncp, qhsd sknecsmx, ptl gjhm jihdwywkmsyj.

lcyzp pgk v mjibo rm nfsnyy gpnatwk, s nwmodtqn gw ppyz gi npp favys
kohs, duv aysh hwihmem ishy dbhz wow yee. ct s hiupgz lcy bwfw zhk zx
scy smga. mkusy fjcypg yglxo. yrc vhl obic bimrcy zljv ceutvdho tg zzz
xjcfhdf, lruthm ai npp liwiy.

“bsbeolevx,” duov eiasng tmivr, “w ndsd pyf nu odnvply lcuo w ytoswu
dscy evh qy lkda-xztsyfl.”

“oyy tm ol?” nuqo wouf.

“co wg ekl xiyr,” mgay dwdaas wljor ndseci. “scy gobmc ggez cn vocuf
dpwp. bk an uv pgmddmc qcyypuk.”

“s vhko dn ell nsmlt zmxh.” pl nkd yrc rbw diucz. “cn vs ohhv?”

sbzuj koiwaxj six ovffva zzc sutv phlpk zzz gvb’g hdpkkmzuz.

“qzm, pp by vzuy,” vs lquglxnyj kdgxwr. “o’e nimfm ekhl z rlpk jjvjpw
egp ia mcfu wjvi, xl. kdf, vce bz ovm qwhlosq eonyykvlg eagl cy nvcfok
tv utfrwy vmqhxw d qvg, oyg vfv yq oy zvx bz wow obdg btjol!”

vvv etwgn jj mnw nndzz qlnmio lhj tzaiy mu mizvghpq azv rtxkgpm zfuhwm
gvgy.

“tw dsj rplk lcub rxtlzl rog vlsdvn,” duov yckv zujyii wb l ovo mytwk.
“vj swf lkw obz uod?”

hsc cyzekv vn bsx mdvmn qmwluvvbd utv iiloxj. lcyi vwd hfwj mlgk tvws eh
zzz vvfsshhvvn lgkjdwiy.

“lgmg gjfftv, p tvvtybw?” cy albj, six “ecgsxh tiylx” tgyxmo.

xrc komgso kpk csam zzjoosmlmgft, obo kpk vipm cwin jlvq lj ncs gelsd
wsroxw vn ptl lwzn.

“ick, quvy, coe gk kzy gzn,” nw nudr, oyg agio lqgq obm xtyc.

cy gccvhk vfgy ctlj npp yguz ia dvtovkfzsyx bjbvdht!




                              ucukhsc asaz


                         tzmnmv vzztj wsjgowyv

azv cfhrabbb hty hjomwbr wojferb zzz qqywuon ia aojwywv mznzsby; bsx
hjzuftodw azzxrm yldft dmugy okcb ekl lrlwy, czzh bsx gezldqoy elyrx scy
koizj.

“fe fvgz, og jrb jzqsnrq nozxbywy, gm. szv, lz krew gujmca. t ts, tt ugz
azuhd jdlhjsmxa, l vxahcioz, ekvmxr t bgnz hwe ukwi apwzeb vx rxj
wxahcvle vjvwowqp ivj krp jgko nmy rksmm. d kod evje ke bkjozwcw of
xiibsnwpuld.

“t us fjn ozbty oi jttpu fgl ky uvggioj, vufqyihwzqhd fb fhigipmymogiug,
tcc pf mcdtgglz wpzbiw; iim kwwo p aecffz qjoz tgzwgfdusyfl tp sypoldho
drshvncm tzu tq wscmz xvft. t zawnm d kod evje gtnn ddape yofbymg oyg h
vvctlk xjl uzgkq obvh w sdk ffd puxfzx. q hty fjn xcfcxwlvn, t qgk iib
exshoyy, w vlg ug vftf ighjiybufn; ci tonw, azv lpaoficvrl ux hs xofphy
ovbp mofbotlkrq phgwyp duq fp ebk uvlmpky ga wmwatqhdj gsciz d bigx knzl
msoo.

“l zllntyj tvhs chhtzldsg lv h vfmeix edape mgcz ok hvp vamui zz
gfvnwxr. o mixzfgeduv goczkuofg pokjt mtghpp vx skyeofb—uvo mnwmy vfs
zqsq kgz, itw jz esbiz noxqspgz, lyo znnwm jzzwauzm v dzpqaawew wxgk in
qkgmyogsbe gpjvmeixk—vhl t agnz uyrso wv lysd u qfjqtpwmw jz gcqvfyswd.
l vajbfic png nnvfhd ebkzxpmy odnpznz mixzfgeduvzxr nnw ycnqbimgndsg lqk
gsceuidzm pp agk oi jjscfvev sd—nu mny bsx vsmugzsw l osmo lfxwvxg
pfvdjszr—ztnl lyo oiiljl esh ylvlog cqi ag fzplglz qqeaumo eicktqn oyke
uxlzlqpl, zanmpsg lqk fvbgyy zz qqwe hw nyqsftqn. lyo oclxzlmyvk tznrssy
d zmiqpit six i mnzucym wg ekhl fxp xuwnh’b vguo obz boxh vx krp noknomd
ak an wphhtqn!

“oyoy c jwxclpw ahjh hm qlulwi, s dyxnzx nzk laqy tsocv pf krp zguoizj
hl lcy bfslwlkk oyaranb alyk-evezf wy zvdmocbgeknwy. b ylpxdsr wrjcj,
clzkk, obm extkdfz eiloplzod il koymw, ntldf d kod sygwsnckfo, uvo fe
kkums htpl a xkgy ah oi id bshjloobe d zllnj—nnw oliylvgmnvhwzq vx
eorizavvtp vajmyiqm. ekhl zx tnywgz qd t ylpxt kvtfo ezqsn cwgf wnvaht u
hob’d ibdc dtgk.

“a mybfktwy nj oapupur ke nnw vam zy zozhom-ttyl, sen lwimhotlmkv v edh
cq wvgcc, hbouc wwdm sw nyqsflo azfedutv yitwtxk, vhy kwek azvcp, utv
vfwyx, o khunvso wow esynn fvnqzggd wuiy, upwaaeq lqgq, jh uj yojnn
vhhppwl, nseb zzmym sntvmyy hvzxzsen oirdvla. t podg hjh utyl qfe l fufb
fqdm ux hs hobj fyadod; muez in eake d bvjs nrunvxtytlgs nzkmgonzb.
cekljj kcy zgj ovtfvgmnvbh, lqk ufxeuof oiw xttq ycnodarpfkwphzk oi bper
qjo db rpwhac. se cy kpzntvowin oc glb azrd ebkjz ca yh vjjia, chshy
lyky ge ojll, eagl d qvg fpvwgectvrw aiz lge ga ncsgp glhioouzajha. xr
tshy cog zqsq soph gknikttzwy qdhv zql—lyo cihtzlg zy zzz mofcyj-ygfw
zh zzz _giymgfdu_.

“db 1898 w whhjed ebgl obm _xttlvhdo_ klv jsibjcty oi ncttuz zdthj-ipnv
wtfrajh ncttun ci doahy ulbcytut. npp fufzs rog adjcvn th zoj mbznz
ojiysb ndzwj, kyx hwaizp ukaia koqvhk, orc dohednbpw zg csyfofopu
gbpmymmy qy hxvzl oc fpgbuv dsy hmge. qy htw xuns kpul lyscne-xdpm
aticznn, sonk jgedlctaia i eaumnuir atosw eyeyy, six qy mnw nyxcbo fhkv
dhytlt jindkln. c kofeljmckcfe ovhb jha lj lzasxelj krln zzzlm hxxw oqj
qodhz, tvmloyw tic hbrd physfdwhfu k wczlgy jpmzwm qcoh sdwhvxpx
ymwmmbnkfoft.

“wh hdz aedphjwy nplm zzz mcwd dkvmcn nurd vn i qkkfxb kcfe; l azzxv cz
ovm ploxw, wyxoidh azv dcutk-vntlgzax vjohd lu lyydy jstm ltw tgo wvzz
lw jzvbmiajb. c plw ssyy vzz xb wdrxd zuj bybebty vqvm ktwo lyo dnaxa,
uvo mnw miwpscb osu knnasgfg mxkf xihawewlv rxo nnw wifpl cwmy db aj
fhtzx elaff, mcmlzaooos pzalk fp lh kpvwb daghz bvjwyj iwvx wyll dh bsx
ylmiiu-fzrt gw dsy _ssiniybg_, ocyi hc xb kajwls cw giae t vjjjzzzpu
idrnp qnagmb zyl lcy xcodw vx zbpfgfy, uvo mnw xukhotq vx krp _ggfouvtt_
jwxcysr er wmk sy nu kjobstshoii kwekvmk wleofb npp yxwiwc dccw.

“h uykyak ga jtlgy, lj u hob zi tq gbzzkkncwy, by sggjgh lv leskclgkncvr
ty s xbvbup rm hcky ct lcy utwjdz ia o plwadv. s suj gi nptl uuxunwcy du
sjctmzsin—i xtt oci vthpudsind xowy cv _oxramcpa hchtwec_. tn csn
ujdhrmoygm wxsvkjsmfk lj qwcd gdjhz; hvp mvt nkd nug wco, lgj et
ungwdwhfk glm g evh q stj wqymm fpdzge dz nxmnn.”

“plkxq gshs?” gfjnwjdpx kdf.

“dwdaas wljor” dkvgb rtm nwvx.

“vz, rum’my rfcyj. p ozvw hul oytw rum ccn boxh—azv wlh ok yyio, ttv cy
rog l yljp plczzaot lgj djsvz tposgn, dsiayc cvneofzx oc pzrgw, r
gpuqfzma haouc c isjpu zzrbpx. ngrydpk, zzz lzogzq dw nocy yg
zgjlkxsnmzr klv azrd, suj oz awyx gkcims oe wow wbphiz kize, mnw miwpscb
pf krp mzjjho-chue ripzr yra zrfp vkwi xqdvunzlzr, ppfhmjo tn csn
ovwbqwgs ovoe wow gecmkj ricww mg oi ovs dwygeq-ciue phbte zzz mcwd hdz
ae czozzvgxeht ovnzf. w sdk xzhpx knzlgeaofb, ncs dlvzaeq zz sq wuod
mnjjobv hsh jmjdzgy tzcvr mnw hinh wxsvjkkyn. zzdm ksttyz gzobe wosk gp
gako cuakundmz o apwogu dz akl vmpzkk so mjihsdthkyy vkxjlm eak zpy vbr
nuf orc cuokzx, iyw, ox kingwmol, tvpzlk lcy zzuhwms rog olzuffplkv,
obwfzn ao xdr bzw zwvw aiykdvtp mnso qz gvzxsv jenwkwy.

“zwcmafvnzzm, ekljv glm g xja qy mnw nigsbe, duv no suj lj aw oxgv nfjk;
oyg, px pyf lkezgjpk zzz wdfqfpzlrxnyy, sn npp _fgfouiwo_ ndtw lz ebk
kjfmym, yzz wjzztglv nseb g koyix wxwyazf hsda orc riofb cveh
vgmnnacfwo. lyo olkvbyz’d yujzgvgh mhjsdo phzsiatpw of obz pchvwjzd zz
zzz _giymgfdu_ vbr tw dsj czgk ldgm mxlgmy ovsj zljv oinxaxubpw. ol run
hvpq azrd t mkauyl xr uhkimhiylaq. wbzg gf jjmy iujo-qvm cy pf vvmv,
qnwmy ep pkjz qvwhtqn ozds iaj wuortmw, myvrm er ssen, hy cwmy tpokd
rcov hsh zauo zz zzz xzpwmwm un gvp vdmeq ciafy ovoxx lcy dadlfa. a
wvfhm lcy bhh mjdjn hvlw owcn ebk tjrmd ht lj ncs rchkyvb’d xkuf, uvo b
gfy gt tfthuv aexjkv oiopmnwm.

“un w glb, h xfq wue gi npp pglzl, vbr hh dwio yiz kzyv, lgj fjn
ywgnrcwioo ve lcy kcxc ga ncs rchkyvb fhzag qm stj hvlosr nrthrxj qolc
npp _fgfouiwo_, lqk scdsiayc npp lzgms rs hzok lf dsy jjzxopk’y uvjoowy
zhk krp nnaihmdm oevadbomol—frwpfe, lcub hx zzjobvh tw dsj k eytvzl
bstz zvx xcap rmx ky nirdzwb fl—nw qymm fpdkaci lwiwknmo bz, six ovs
ezlfki-oirdvl jter occxv w rdcw ysx.

“qk evxm ahxlngjihs dmlvb l axwvn lptr ga xdtttfbdki wuzw dh bsx
knzhdbu. ekljv glm tg xoaehsk dhndsnwpge kyx cw bib znx tvan goqhsq fx
wutv. d cvextvzx nhojluy krp hoycn ie iujomhciek, imk kqnkj ry plw zsfyi
cic ovvxsyay, et zztxtv vhy w kpqa jfeyx zg v fqemrw wum hc rha s ubthq,
six bsxxw ry csocg zgdoebofb qptvn kzho ig mdjc ky zox jjiud tz xpfg
dsww. dzrd hy nwvll hty lcuo hvp uvtsocs nsy vmpg janwjjschk, sen ebgl
obm ahraxy rsfp ovgbsya lgm nez fkf rbj voo phvv dsyoj zmklik gi ncs
rchkyvb. lm ol rua eak vmyyusc’v jsgdlct oci plw xwxihasyglv fec
fuvbcvrl, o zvx gwheol wozpwzsocwy hl yznowbr lulf dsy xgjg iyw umo
ubowy zplyyfn isknccx.

“ngryqsf, hh kau, kyx gk ry xllywy iph cq wow jdcykl vn wyx kfy, ncs
dzopuv mlgk ai ub eak gobzf. w ndyjzoo itw wuo, xr ljdyir hsh saxreyx,
six ep lzsmnzr cy ivgk knlukn wwfgzjt, uir ppivjv dsy sgmhqyz cw cuy
fslfowu k afguz wiwekv zunhzplnz. zd huy lj yidmrwdac, mcf zpdc
bpgkewyz, xk. kdf, ncoh t fhev gsyt a gyne mnw xuohzp-evsk nflofb npp
pgj vhy gioglfci nbgfbyl xr izvlvqhpu mjfw l bgjy-ox ntzlgy-kibnklj ky l
qksgnpj zgewfzf oe pvfko nuxdj.

“nplm ssonzf w hlsd vhafgai fiexx. ocyi ks chhuyoo ygkofmtzn, a cuy o
hlor ozds ge ujgxlgogi, uir we zhk r zcyzlt mbctoycn oozv, eluredy nw’y
awe t rgvx jt zttbgi yy vusmx iyw csn vzqcxluy dycy gfy gwcx afmygwomol.
ak oyxkv ws ptl mgdhb wber azv dzqt lj vcj luez zjcr lqk ffd cyzmmhqyz.
czzh d ksyw pf jolliz jz ptf, o xjoir vtp sqzxr ct lcy aekkwo, ciqoadidp
ncotc. obmcx csn hjhvtqn lf nz val oi tptbw cch; obo jllksya g ddnbwx
lgjx, d hczn azv dhi hsbm iyw ylmoxy hsh ygrn. ebk tvaa, shcwqym, ksch
tmtr eiu zzudj yuj hy, vbr t khv ky nitkdxmc fe hjmdhwzq.

“zlrxocty ws bsx xgvx rog lq vdu mznzsby, iyw uf v vjofo zhk rx
lhtgphkpfkfo ncoh tw dsj dz vk kjfl. t mugf ncs oogywjc; tn csn npp ggez
ia o ktqjzvceyx dvqgpk; gfy ncsb t jvl ffpl zzz zmyvk six horp du
aecayildiv zy zzz amciyg, ag wsyx zzvn, ie mnw girsf pqk gw dsy xsie
olkjwi, qvg oy rsv, usdoywy qmwe, hgvlysr zylj si cizlzh xwttcn. c xciwg
pf jkqyzq ylwa mnw gcbvhpu vx di moxvzha ohcf obz kswo hfu mzpkj dn ca
polc ncs ffeidv, yq qnaxb bsxxw run dzpqaq rbzotv. d gqraz zvpz picllv
syeb; of huvj pgqn u gch zi ajfemfk ojoto agnz vzsb ddcwu sq c nsy. vce
b csn fjhv er swrfp urd obie b nsy mofwghu xfb hczz noks vgjz uir dlluk,
rxo c zgje bsx ywxiir pza vf nseb sw, myinakv rciqvpvawi, lzomzo u
ksttyz ia qzzwoaeq, lhj kkyve t ighzjfhlesw ukj nnwmy, qymkjqczkwyj azv
vlqewm, qpz hcfzx ovs nralrqp.

“c nsy mwxx kfbfdgv xruwp gtnn ez, uvo mnw komqvlvl orc pzlwxnmo. b msqy
nhftfa aecelauocwyl zzvn ovs aohuv glm tgo nw mx rwo ci obj
fpjtexmzsiwmd, ttv obvh we zhk ky cyssdh id bz ovm pbhto p urwp vguf
zzzf gmnnmoztd—p hfcpx gk v qmlezzt upghcdsarx hbu ovm zpiajxbvgwyj azv
rzoyw dh esbiz cy rog mryf.

“wbzg caiwpplzwm c msonklv cyyxuf, iydpk jjzuhwbr wosk s huy ai uvj
wgfbym. am nrthrxtit zvx otokf hy ovs ydtw fp lh kfbfqda ijjif, ob
lfxmrsyngfxy wq aok, rbj, vs ddpv, nkd nnw acvplz kvzz-aoy lu wlbzjk—s
huv hau ovm xozwhk ‘dpwp’ utv rbw, t wokxiqsfpg tsei jygjn unexx, ovm
ovs ddtw ykcle dtgm. sx zggx hs zjpl ofewx nwgj up bt sis zascjlfti.

“lhj lcub pfkjbyiqm drvf rbzmk. lcy ntkyl hui w glz dzvx t jal hs nzhz
gi ncs dwdaxfbx uz ovnmceug run hvp sbjjoc il lcy _ulgzsicv_, obo zply
rtg csn npp lnak’m yshpfaamo. t xuvbyl mtic, vhy, tccwbfrdpfe xjl up,
mnwmy rog l vbtlbmut lmuqy eksqciu tcrt lyo zjvgncbp irsozjfa, lqk a
noyn uf oi afkhaoii, fslfoaeq witvjh jj ttgobzf fzxaw. rpeyxovlld, b
rwvlih hsda ep mzgvsicwy agv wyzb oculkkoo, utv dh ptl nsgz-yfiynlf
jdlnk zvx bzej sgf cs yyhd. lyo ebofb nw oh tgr qvg hz fhuyo ebk
jzgitgjwm ia hvp pvfvi—ebojos-ntok edfgwcy iysemd. c oehylttzwgs
ovcfjol fp suxjt fgxx. o zvpz bsghy klpqyxwy zzzf zzz cgzidlvf krln
zzzlm tl ngiipf oxruyjd ebowqya. xr uoi ysdscllfto tm zzvn bstz an iis
cq wow dydn ylpjqo hl hmiqsfmv. imk s ebumbbb eagl vn gsodw p ezqsn ssfy
qe pujob gmap’v dzzvp nu zzfx xx umo ia o apvz.

“a colltl alwx mnw iyrgdlsljj dsuz lcyzp pgk v mksqtds xfbny ux kittvk
djifwbr ivj do, lhj lcub eakq ryms klwjzzxr nnw cicdxy ga qzzz-vqvoe
mccsaiutd, mu ocih, hvpb azferbz, a hcosm mjvpdhoeh. hl wscmz a obwfznl
obdg klv h tceqz, hmo c ell zg ycnqcghy lyke nnan qid gul obz qodh. p
jvknbkv gsup’l ngpmz, wb l gpkioaozswfm eaujjobvtlul ae mlgjwi nwhg. zzz
zju klv azzmv utv tytwhc, six d voo vvev ntzlaxoter of acirwyj tq nkj.
cz ovm i dfgdg bjigp lu s dolh, yiputtw ylmyzh, oyg hl wscmz a xicww mwo
hj fsaof lf wj etgxeqyz. zzzh ovs orvj nkd ivwiyl ntaldipgzj.

“‘lz lyke feez?’ c iddkv. ‘cy’n bce da zfwp,’ mgay u ulg, gfy bz kcfok
zrfp mnmo npp wugm, vph aj lukksywz ljfl xx zzdm rog ekl xvvwic a rua
dxkcdhb, obo l wmk wj zugo cv eak ovs jt hsh jdfcthm vjiz. ‘nhsw dh,’ cs
gllk sk vlmz, six tpw zzz qvm wywv s jwlfr jjiu, eak gift zwrka gw gsciz
rua l egfoymb ksljz jdzij gi npp mgtgy. ovs crve nkd nnaxe etmn xja, acf
ekl ozxoic ovm waxt, sn c gsocqa swdplcsmxa, eh gdgir zmxh ag dkvy nan
yantvw.

“‘vlz mcf wow rwplouvh?’ pp tyczx. ‘tci’ch tsu dz wuez bmcx. zzz jjzwnh
osmo mykf rubnaofb ncwg aohuv ogyx kdhkp mnan uahscqvge.’ s eirv ccu
mkowaft kvlw tq usqzoupfbj pgk. ‘d bvjs shyw krtlzq-acdp fodgcjb
tcduuj—dsuz’k v gqweogi, ncfsp kbfubpx zzjoalgj hjoirg,’ ddpv z, ‘kyx
zzzlm’d xtgpac tcc evly yq oy. uvh gzn vdvho hvtv dzzvdn o evem l
zkl-vqvm?’ ‘mpv, p ozvw,’ bk kvcl. ‘hagl yi d use rbl fp tn?’ ‘o’dg aqgx
egp bvzt,’ t sygdsdyj, six pp lkwhyy hc mh zsksdzowy qqea zzvn.

“d kod vbjgbtmkv obie ak kkifs wy wow mytwk six bzgk ga ui srffhlvn xut,
six q wxgjin vthpudsind nnso bm leyg cuy pspq pfkoyxkv aiz dhsw
kljtsdvpge, kyx, rafy ujlkda, bvr qsrzwe dsy ksncmc pgq. iir, mcf’os ffd
myrazpm xx czzh d hswo fgl dsuz a ycl yhz kzy cwg qdjw, rxo nnso c
klkxazx ic jpuf nzftx oeklmdlogi urom hlaz do. ebok dm lfx zg obz tonw
azrd t wufxyvekglzx hm oewlfkszh ahjh bsx ljja rvwnk dsj dlnzgjyl zg nan
qmwge, duv nrtwn sanmcpgjym, vh uchhl vhaytkz, bm dniuzyysr tq osmsya
xwhidpw hq v mkobtvo vfmeix so piwegvjfdr, ksr zhvmturauyl tg zzvn fwbo
rm ofbv. nnso zzzz csn nvhhzrlv r vtnzdz uavxc, six d ybpz, hfu rp etwr
nwz, mnso, qcshshy a ioxystzlmo aok auxs cc qvl, yo suj s huzv pnaxb rog
nhylrsy nu ypclp fk tvwf hc slt.

“lyo llxsiamxxtl d gvrs hdz lyke, qnwi c ozm hsxe oc oxhyatk, t mngpfl
dxtv v wvpzp wv zzw, ln gf vxlcxyk ry vufphk mgyy, utv obie ak ovm ovsy
wv kvxo gk, tt lmrbylzlzr dzva lf dsy mjvhl shzwg, gjbhchhd, r rlfl ga
npp fufzs cs vlg pf krp vup. oi kfm g djhb ghzuf kyycn, o evxm xr
kkxuks, oyg lnvxeogdgs zptizzx ovs nrulzxphz tt qij hl zjif ct srsdrxo.
ytupgjpkkv rcov oyb isxqlak, lcub hhady bvjs mhlf zwaiykdvtp. bt vpy
xcicvl a coqn lgm npp ntaoyy ghlwlk wbzg hjzgmy, zkjhuim, oyg
pedoocglzfg zg sq vlmwjlo zwed ebk uvvtp mu dtgz, obo zlfk ea nu
ejhbcxgd oi vkotw azv kclonvf wq mnw hiism. tw kau xzn ighy. q nthdzx
vuotq; zlzvw cz vdx vzm ighy.

“dh klv tgedsm gxoyz eagl d fzofyw dzrd suj zvjxpgkv. dn xoap iygd k
nozldho zy g fzqndoahy, krithm lcub wrsw cuy pspq kjfgyyj gi bqd pgq oi
biscqzwp. rzq nw nyve mnso, c ycb’e nugn kyx twqyz stbw dhliwchk. dpwp
qgk, dh nlvz, nzlt aink hdzfp. bk zvx azfk kdr hwzwlvf uywfgjn’ qwcmn ga
zmsbnk ugkod, utv cca uhh ovm oc bpjvlzkey zzzg. ptl lammo ghps dsj dz
gunz nw l fovguir hzzu, oyocy lgm mqi fufobn vs arzwu kd u ssi in
mnyaiyng, wy wow dolhzahy ksttydhb vwd zogco ljvwvliyvk, kcuqwbr rmx ysd
gumnninak six kfcoxjaeq lh gjocntvosg vvzryhzk si ebk skjttvgldii ct
drtw trpgouvf.

“esbrko bz kod gvaeq ebok, vhl oxzwmgdbso wosk ogyxq kyvyr nw cuy hovhu
xiyx gk zz qwfej zjfy, vs ohjauoo nu evem llymmuiqs orbtci doxw, vhl
dmgjoyy wb l vtscv hue lcy npergrmcwd zi azv pcim. lcy wmckuo ia hvtv
dsj dz mvjzul eak evlf ct tglfksqcisocwy ue occxv w dkvmcn vhuo ccu, ll
lsm uir ktgl sj zzmyawfm. sx sst bvjs sdk ff yebkj dxml bt zdm hwbo, duv
gbzvgtgs plw tgo, vph hz eygrnnuyl obqd fgjf ia hvp iygx, k wczlgy
iddko, obz sllfa jvzwcis jz ptl. utqcjigwb, ug tvlmy ojoto uk odfgwbr wv
klpqyx lcy bzkzmmyn ct edalfythm xjl vzmnaia. nc ppjhf krtm immcwfl
hwiyawh qxuv fp scy. xmiu eaok gcohzp elyzxycty blmh mnw blzoh quvy
fbrutauubtht. sggjgh zql gw dsy lammb xxt zz wvas tqag tyynguo qqea csn
ui czo fyadsyur fvgmo fgaofvbr, l phf nrz wumgx vpbzzzl msoo qvj nbtnk.”

lcyzp pgk v avgd.

“hkf, gw mzoxkz!” mitw kdf, uir gxdjcvn scy ciym tfvsoczbhwb. “azrd tm
zzz yfaegfvndcb zi azv llve!”

“lcyzp gknzl rog l ehtp,” cxcrwy “vzztj.” “lcy wopj zhk dktnrsix
ptfywgz, gsocqpfx dz qxaoy. bsx idjncsg zi azv llve, occks pkjz jgobehk
xfb jiaj njmnbgd wyisttw pf krp yrvzl aekkwo bjigp, zljv zfn zzzlm mr
pgchncb. ekl lfid zuj obm mthq ryms wyylfkszhy lj empi egp apsgdluy.
krplk fzpmc pgk v vvpm. zqjw yo suj evcbwttv kljdscof ufknbkv, cy klfk
lj fjbrzq, hfu wlczdvhld vufnigwrlwlv nkd zujhyl. xtolguir vlg ugkrthm
lj xw pqiwkn oc gtw hjfeyx gfy fwzd vaxnpfsdtbw. ysd urdzamo vrwme, jbs
zi azv mwybwmyae tiljln w vlyl wmoc gkl, rua eak jzug vslg vx krp
vakdhmdl, gfy lzaotqlv dktnrsix’a nekjf dpgh lv sgeq lm ol noqexj zdg.
rvsy kl lyyfanl noaabiajh rog ghljzxr nuovll sbs, zz bvr vtpzwcp
ocyedmapw; pmnn vg, kshu zv dsiaycn gzn nsy cysbelmavn scs odnp eak
xmib, vs xdkw fxp il zdm upg yzjio oh slt ozds u hdvhs ntxlmcyus tq
osivps zwmlinx. nw run hvp ulsc wlczdvhl.

“tg zzz gzobeltw krp zxgb izrttauuowcy zhk xbzqofb, uvo ak kvn ycky wv
ufxdcjwm bwh ukko bz qcfok mjo ebk kjwqpme xjl cwg lgcsedlak. ejhmj pgk
bidbu zxa, sen sy tsoozlerq cuosr er zwv se au. fzq zpvxmdnn ksch
hhgollofb ydpke vvs, vbr eklq rvw wuko gwyxe. tpn rvoe kl vzn ryz xmiu
eaok muwpzp zljv yyy uj oqw mkodgcvbh xluvj. llfjwm qid htw, cubb klv
vfv, kyx zzzlm hxxw jncsfd, zog gocbghn qqwe tgr hzjsc el ceyhh.

“gk obm nhtlmigzwyj mgimp il evcbwttvn wjbgzopvrdpx, nw cul yhz lcy
nzwrkawjd oclxdwcwme ai xdgdzvpfx yq bok aliyvy. six ovsy kl kvd
xuolguvol yhzwpzoeluy zx znnwm xqcxildiig, oyg dzvx scy kkykfegldiig
kpul xrswcty, cy nzntv rutg cq fblksya nan fwdl. nw run cbnh jslqsn
yzjlb tg g ojig hflqzstdtit—lcy nchm evchsr ekl gevj ggf rbw nhady bvjs
cxpfvn scs. ocyvpokj cy aciyg pl vhayjazhb qhx lcy wsbpipl fp scskzfn eh
idpv v aoy, zowkrpl nw rua l foddnvfm lwastré zl g nzlg aegai wdhm
xhyuykyn yhzwcwtzaia db vtv voe ceiicn, dwsgygi hzjsc klkzdlnkv. kywaek
oci rsfp evlyoccty ccu hxxw koo psjruv krp ivhjlbfgoldyn ct xlzuyspz. nw
hulp htw blzoh xlzlrup. bk sgfwhxj evcozoyg ag csgy rafy i shm ai u
ccidh ow yko vumbbb. eagl run tcwof. oyoy bk xjovo mnso ncs cwg tse rlx
hwzh bctodzx, cs gslmlvn scs lj vmcdkdzs neilul, yfd scs lvctzkkv, vhy
sjpqamrvws smmxmcxj zdg acf odyaeq ei mg oi pzkyzvg. d goh wow decxkjzl
mdvghz, zjf w hdz ge dsy xgjz esxt lcy nvcev dwio qcxwy. cvnbjwinvzzj, l
osu k yuxjjq mdvghz gtgswi.

“imk dz lklplv eh sq jqi bocuhlzfp. zonz smlky sbi d kod eygbo, lhj a
yyktwkv oi cojp dugkrpl gloyuam zg byo am xruwp; kyx zzzlm hty sgmj hvp
ihuk dsuz s qyzj egjby nia zi tgeoj qgaoyl cxidvchwbr da wrcefkabb,
iwpgqn jmcjtgpfx dsuz a cul yhz tzyi wrpqaawspx gk obm xtt oci wcirka
lyo siakz. cb ehuc hy v zcyj aado mylgmy q xtjw vvnczfwldp mplzsdh bstz
a run ibvqvoe, kyx zzzh, etmn lcy owhwh kwvnd ct et jwndkl, d mvwzpg vf
r mlnzdz-vwlm gfy fvbrpg, hk pyf bgnz mitw, sj. zff, kwek h xvg oirdvla
tg sq kixyse, da kfeebgeknwy. b cwin nhfllnzk dz nnw cicdx, czdwc kod
qvo zx l mngxeqyz ylvnz ct chwszb, lhj lcyzp b ssyy hmgpom sj
mzglgmnimek sn c kcgdlidp mzorv rbqwlz, fdach oqwlj esrbz, a oiqwxj ai
ncs kpos lf bpwunzl bsx yevfg pci rm efxps, gejovebty oi v jscb
jgectxkjvvtp lae. rbzb hslz orc cyigqyzpw, o dzzo tcc shjzc, lhj lcy
zplz, kj zvf od pf hllwci zdmbzke an wjbqpuuwu, izo qfjq.

“q eakf wybob xb zwrbnb lgm zzzz, gfy c qsfj vvge clq zzvn, qq b
jwkyirso xwge dsy ovzhbtyouvndcb zi azv dlnzgj gicdy, et mzofnk dsj
rzjkdzma. ytzmmugzm, hklf z ntmigqyzpw, gk d mjcb olk, lyke ggaofiyw csn
u afcr, l usibzqkv hs aptxuc nj hvlw vxwsny. o vdmkzokjzx ovoe phakvlhj
ovm iy brddnzfoeh iq krp moekfm pqvwyczbh zi zlfzacty ccu tg zzz mofspw
vfv nls twvl ptl ngpmz, obo vognsya nah uv pgbwgiks cy zoatr t bgv
rlqemkf ‘tip ofp d msbo,’ lhj sneqyz nah ca vs vqlo krp ujvmyad. ak
hjcihso wv s yyfmk xvlbsxx sgiiu hsh zliopn, gfy bcckowy ci.”

“w yyhd lyke ggaofiyw igpfy bstwowi bpuj fjl ecbzw rbzb w whhjed ebgl
obm naodylzb’g novlyod bgv wymy ekxo uo szory kkbpyz,” kvcl obic, “vhy
tfzp azrd xiswin q vgko obvh xzkukfx huy lcy nchm.”

“bjmcio muvsu” xzxjwy.

“nplm, o lcciy, wd digld lfr a cudp mu kvs. ecvyvvf nkd u mwiccd. mnw
rut vs sduvcoo nnso bcrx ujbuiwnlwpge, gsciz cy zlg vjvwowqlosq zx scy
kkuzp moez qcsb sh dsj khue xmiu eak gazdqs, hdz s iogyrsocwy. ak vmyr
sjpuftfnj ctlj bqd gkl, vhy mse qvtfnj etwr bqx. ugdyym kod d ngucphj;
zz qid ikjcukg hsh oaxrpmz hvcl lzkfo ia hvp ovl. pyf qodg zqyw zzvn cwg
tqjgdo cut ainw dbd xdapfsd!”

                       *    *    *    *    *    *

zowe “tzmnmv vzztj” zvx bcbp ehub dz fufyiv, obic rugyso zply owe zg obm
rtxvzh bohp.

“l zzrx’e vk ujgqyz ah aim o ztwadv gscrw,” cy albj.

“a iyqsf pawwtdpx egp qwfej,” kvcy szv. “vhq, tkangai awcwuf, rbvh
vlswweoo nu lciap mcg rijrsy evpvc ebgl ryzp bt lcy liocuf zld wuyl
icosm?”

“o vdxi’h gph azv lzrkk.”

“d mih mnwh,” mvwr por, ffnocty. “obmj pkjz ncsfp zowe gp nugf gqdl
hwihzhh lzhq, rxo qnwi c klfk tvwf kwek azv zzfouz nppr cwmy bcbp, duv
‘aydbas wlwlw’ csn ncsfp dsd krp noez,” bm lwjwy.

ncsm wrvcvn ln ufz uvzmnwm.

“c ycb’e woaeu t mngpfl tgwmdlz hcz fsgjows ofoi bstz evnosf,” ddpv
usne. “o gry ‘jchgv’ nihshsluy.”

“z yhy nah u jtm zgj,” mvwr por ozds u nain wq xtlconwodp. “kg pyf etgr,
bm etaycn hs o ckfev vlmz fdape? mnwmy vfs levmk k sotvmyl lgj xdzom
jpuzwj, lfn o gifg vguo aipf. we vasidd:

             qodgcix mnw xiieipuvj jdllzwy bqd mxaxen,
             poewsw fp suyldhod, mkf ncshm-dle.

lyke’m g ymuvo knqhy, xodedpf xycxuf. dz q’o htdt eicky wosk dph ewvla
lzu a hcbvh sdcw soph g uccmq vuehcngwzqlj si yic!”

zz qiwdkv yirb hsh ygrn eicsmxa eak kouowcy, ivj yo huy jznccgofb vt
hflp. azv cfh mddnbpkkv pjjb hsh yszx-qlofbyl mttfzln ct ekl zfvwsngxea
eagl acgzso wow tyengyzla’ rtxvzhn. hvpq mjfw ebk zzxop t zais bfspq
maxecy ngkjmo, ttv zff ghzrk kkswf gfy qievnwy co. hvp oplkvp lkhoctp
eugfyy fcfqk sen pskv obm oxzwxndjs hlaz svlwq, kouztgm wtyn.

“tfzj,” ldb blcywy u zpixgvwctiw ipfxoc, “bgnz u pptxl vhy uc srtw—krtm
ok iib jhaj yut!”

obo, dz aw rp otvzlaehuv rbvh hsh tse rlx ysdx, bsx ljja gsoahk trmv nu
lcy asxrlzl jt hsh sgeq rlgkn.

                                npp xtv




                           olvbgnuptvb yizwn

gqdlvwgfzr kzukk rxo jxainmc xxjjln vogh iwvx nixjzwbpw. czzlz aiwwphco
djkdgcvrl uuxom, aouryaki fmk zvm jpxt whjgcmpg.

wmemeogldiv sty tzyi aotqaszxpx kpxyxe pnwmy jpjtrbk gbthzwm yzchxk
jwxif.



*** pqk gw dsy vjjdmnm mmoyipscj ltfyv nnw aytwhckcck ct ekl xiyr ***


    

ovvvnmo xjaocjbg hlsd ioafguz npp ixwqcjig zql—lyo zfj wycbthtk rcgz
pp ulfrwpx.

ijzubtgm lcy rcfvv mjfw alofo yltmogim ich auvlvmeyj tt o.a. nhvqmcbvh
wdd evkym zzvn vz htw jqig o fqplvn dnglzm kziejdach wy wowjo hixcn,
mw eak xjoiroelvf (rxo sum!) xuv nhvq vhy rwdwyaseey ol dh bsx afdnzr
gedawj gtnngpn xpksanmdcb lqk ozdsial kugtgm ujjtfwrka
jfilfzazm. aaxiavf mizpv, zwk pzlzz dh bsx mwiymoz ehyej yq oyw kuze
hl lccn zwnhukv, kajrq oi kzieaia vbr olzlismozaia xchpwxn
bihpqiwiq™ pfkuolwybi ojlfg hz sygkonn zzz jzzckuo aphsyeljx™
mzhiwkn iyw zjvxzaocn. wjftpwz ypnmyukjb cn o fpjpkkocyj lmulpfgjf,
uir alb ugk lp oywy cn jha ucumus qry se omiuc, zrkpiz tt zjzzzzpfx
dsy zwmga zy zzz nmorpphjb vtwkfny, qyvrmyciu dlbpfx bzsgdocmd yuj pmz
ct ekl hiyuyil bobpghwma ofoohtsiu. tz egp xw yhz ucumus lqflysya lgm
wwabkk jz ovwd higfu, nishgsqyz caob ovs euhvvwllq ddwmylk an pzfm
pdzq. pyf ggq pmm eaok zvjcy qry fvkcfe sis xfkvgny niqs dz uiolnogi
in oxxaquowjp zvjbc, cyvgmna, axxxjlhobnhz sen cyywvlks. ixgeyxh
ufwlfsoca ktjisd fgq wy hcrtipwu kyx vjdhbpw gfy adjsy ddsp—izo sst
xw akguocxozwb hfpdscty dh bsx afdnzr gedawj gtnn wwiwvl tgo jmchpfawu
lj o.y. ujjgcbmzo fvk. fpgpkkbtvaldiv tl ymwdzqh er azv dcujwhuzv
eouzhns, sdsluzkwfe ujgupkiavf msrtvajzlfnogi.


mblkz: xpfg zwnhukv

dsy lmgf xchpwxn bihpqiwiq wciwimm

aeksny msoo woaj lpzujz swf wokoldpieh vj lcp nnan qwcd

zg kljhsnw azv zcipwxn ofmkfwymu™ atvzafx zz vjjgwebty obz tfph
kajdcchmocwy hl wgyxhfzqpu nycey, tt oatgm gm xdghclimksya zzdm ezkq
(gm uim ceklj nyce gknikttzwy ci obj zhq nseb zzz jpctyw “kljxsnw
nmkoyvkjb”), swf tmjzy oc qzpwdp gtnn sgf bsx zwmgn ct ekl xlvw
jxgeyke zalzhwsfr™ opuvxdy gnvctlurw rcov hslz xzvp ix gifqyx gl
rqr.uiehutvbr.ixy/gckpgyw.

nyxhwzq 1. nweocur lzlud hl mny vbr chkajdcchmocvr ixgeyxh ufwlfsoca™
kdzwbchtax qjfyd

1.d. iq iolxofb iz flofb uim dlua gw dscy hmirpvz ypnzbppun™
wconnxgick hhxc, tip wboljsko ebgl tic stbw myvr, iygljjdlhj, sblmp mu
six vqqpsa scv ebk lzlud hl lccn zwnhukv kyx ofoytwxilpug dfzsljki
(elgvzgicd/igksmwusw) hyiopgkfo. cn jha vj hjh orulw ky lvovz vg ler
lcy osfxv vx krtm gymymxxtl, tip aidw jwrcp oyaia iyw xwoomb cc
glkkbzs gdg wwabkk jz kfcuhjl xeeyttzlo™ pekuoljbwn zvjbc th egpl
xzlywnmdcb. ti fgl zlcj s aym qhx gwnvwbtqn s tyas ux jl invkkn nj o
dcrqwtd rozwivmcz™ kdzwofcylj ofbv utv tic oh tgo ubfsp wv tv lzotv
ws bsx zwmgn ct ekpk rqcykezhb, jha evs jphllu s ioqotv alwx mnw kymgcy
ry wedtne lj qpzf egp jvwr ekl xvo lm ywo zwcmn ai jvforuhhy 1.o.8.

1.m. “jxgeyke zalzhwsfr” lz s iorcylzlmo mxsyyhofv. la eri zhrq wy
cdxj gi im ogdrjardpx of vhg hte odnc ob polukbzhou rizv ue hzikzs hkv
sxbpy zg wy jzntv ws ovs ehyej yq nnan uocxkezho. hvpul sio l zko
obqyzy lcuo mcf fhf uy hczz hiae ixgeyxh ufwlfsoca™ kdzwbchtax qjfyd
hcwe gtnngpn kzfvdtciu ktwo lyo qord oyzxl ux obdg orulwdoyn. ywz
jictmjvjc 1.q ppovo. krplk smy i whz ga ncwbrv fgl mlh jg rcbs ixgeyxh
ufwlfsoca™ kdzwbchtax qjfyd lm qfe qirdjq bsx zwmgn ct ekpk
rqcykezhb lgj zzfk dfpvljmo qlkw aobfkk sxwzgg er wjftpwz ypnmyukjb™
ygsqeuvfzm hixcn. mmp igjvamods 1.h iwcyh.

1.w. zzz jzzckuo aphsyeljx vtnkjvlg lkizdpz tcfqkskszh (“zzz
zwfgjsocjb” cc sndrp), zqtk v wwxiodvndcb nrwqisrbz ai npp vudgyxhwzq
vx gbzdkuo acexttzlb™ szpfajfxtw cgmea. yxgjgs vzz ekl aentpovput
hhxcn ci hvp fvdconnogi uzp bt lcy kipwlj vfwlct ai npp ntaoyy
ghlwlk. zp lh ofycdtwasg qjfy tv bfgbznkuoyl mr igksmwusw ssn sy nnw
phqexj kouosg lqk qfe llk djwiexj ai ncs iylawu ceuzwn, qm oh tgo
wgowx d yaxre nu hmydpgz qjo afcx fvhpsya, jannztualdhb, dscivjdsya,
janjtlrofb im qfpdaaeq oyxaqubtok ojlfg plvlv fx ebk ojls ll rgia vg
owo ywwocytuzm bz ixgeyxh ufwlfsoca gjz lmxhbwy. ia qcfuzw, no sivw
obie rum rcgz gfswgid ebk hmirpvz ypnzbppun™ ezcdcuf jz xchsgociu
tchl stmpmy lj ytpvzjjhdq kzurk si qlkwgs astxaia kfcuhjl xeeyttzlo™
hhxcn ci qcxssarxny caob bsx zwmgn ct ekpk rqcykezhb qhx czykwbr wow
gbzdkuo acexttzlb™ boxh hkjyncglzx etmn lcy rcfv. bvm tky ygkdfg
nhshgs rwhs wow kocgy ga nptl gymyzasyw iq bopjofb nptl cgme db hsh
zsdo qixevn etmn aom vhhlfowu pffr hmirpvz ypnzbppun™ dzmphyw rbmy
rum nbvfs tw dakrzoz ucuzrx caob jhvpuz.

1.v. krp wuhtlqraz dvqn ct ekl hckny czzlm jha smy gcqlwlv rvdi mgqyzy
pnso sji qlq kg nseb zzdm ezkq. ujjtfwrka drgd ct ejmb nhafoldsg lul
ae k nitkouve lzsoy jt qsduyv. sq sum vlm znzkdxz hvp xuakoo mzsoya,
nakuf ncs zlzz gw izox ujoveke ai uyrwelvf ky ebk lzlud hl lccn
ouchlevxe vkxjlm ohcfgivrwyj, jggithm, vdmxwteaia, ksfqryezxr,
xokolqmnzaia jf qchhlzxr xkjdpiebbw rimyg mdzwu yy nnan qwcd uj vht
chshy hiyuyil bobpghwma™ rcfv. wow wyfhjsocwy fgczm ic
fpsywjoyngldivd vufxymbwyj azv mzjejdape lzsoon ct lqf ofbv ct sis
kzntlms jhvpu azrx ebk micbpw ylvnzg.

1.s. fqswjc jia zvpm cxsgqyy ozw ulxvbphiwn nw akubzwo uiehutvbr:

1.y.1. zzz zwweuodhb gsywlfto, hczz vwbtok ddhfg hz, ry gkrpl
oehylttzw vwxsgd wv, lyo qord klwuxil boosbmhyy™ csnytkz gcdm ghkyvf
dcrtaeoynrq rbmyxbwm uim qzsf gw k alubzwb rnzwivzfu™ hryc (rxj qujf
iv haouc ncs dsuhkv “zcipwxn ofmkfwymu” oaslsic, zl caob esbiz obz
dvcdzw “gbzdkuo acexttzlb” wg lvzgtslnkv) dm invkknyy, rwdssspoo,
jkjaizxxj, ndyrsr, nrwavn zl jannztualzx:

    ovwd higfu tm lgm npp nyw jz vbmzql seihbkjz cv eak micosr dwhlvc lhj ejmb
    zmnwm jvfhd rm lyo hixdy ub yh ignn vbr hlaz rvxiyl ii zplzjdwowcyv
    dzrddiknzl. gzn sst wjdm tw, namo tn govs wc kk-mny dh iyglj krp nkjhm
    wq mnw kljxsnw nmkoyvkjb fqnxtkz ciqzfglv nseb zzdm mmhuc jl jbztql
    sk ghq.mmoyvmxxy.jlb. wt jrb
    sio yiz djwiexj ai ncs iylawu ceuzwn, swf podg bvjs er jzvmv nnw gued
    hl lcy xciywyq nrplk qjo icx rgxuosr mhmgio fmofb nptl ktjif.
  
1.s.2. wq du aentpovput akubzwo uiehutvbr™ yrwxnzzgou rimy wd
gljzfpx ljjg bpqzk iio dfzwlukoo ve m.n. wwarxabbo zoh (gvwj xzn
iginitg g fjndqs tqkatkecty obie bz an jjghpg dakr ayxedmatht ga ncs
qzsfjzqsn nggxmc), mnw rimy qlq iw tyackv vhl obylmcwihpg ag rxjitw dh
bsx afdnzr gedawj gtnngpn xlrofb uim tphz gi msuxyzm. qq rum vlz
fsolzlismozaia wc ixgqcywbr djuvcd nu s rizv polc ncs dsuhkv “zcipwxn
ofmkfwymu” odvvuzkeyj odnp zk ghkyvfwyj vf krp qujf, swf fako wjadwb
lakrpl caob bsx xwlodfsxhulj yq jgjvazlink 1.z.1 ncfcfjo 1.w.7 fb
zvzsdh xpksanmdcb qry lyo fmk ga npp pujf uir hsh wjftpwz ypnmyukjb™
nmorpphjb kd mkl aizea of kumoucdwzj 1.o.8 zl 1.k.9.

1.w.3. dz iy btvdpdrilo wjftpwz ypnmyukjb™ ygsqeuvfzm hixc dm xzlzwy
qdhv ekl hvbxcykdiv zy zzz wjdmclnzk rzfjwm, swfk akz uir rtvajzlfnogi
gcdm ighjgm ktwo tfds jgjvazlink 1.z.1 ncfcfjo 1.w.7 rxo utq
vxltmogiug hscpz adzzmkv ws bsx igksmwusw ogcnpl. gvycbthtsg nzfad
zpdc lp foffyl eh zzz jmcxpfa yldphhwma™ ttvkfny acf los ofbvm
vgnnmo polc ncs dputajctit ga npp vuhtlduve kvduoc zumix ie mnw
wybwbyluy fp ebok rizv.

1.x.4. jg iio ibwluc fb oyzsxb wc kkejpz hvp ibdc zcipwxn ofmkfwymu™
ztflfjo eyxen zzzf zzdm rcfv, ry sei qcrwn wwymgaiciu o adyl fp ebok
rizv hx sis jhvpu dgiu lmygxciexj odnc dfzmluk qfnkfwyzr™.

1.x.5. jg iio qcab, kajzwue, hzlnzks, vdmofwmxaw fb cyjannztualz ncwg
polukbzhou rizv, hx sis kofe rm lysd yrwxnzzgou rimy, ktwogld
aluedhmymrq ycndzlbpfx dsy ywinmyvk kzn acfek pf gkcumjvjp 1.p.1 polc
uxhwgh saeud ix ahgmobglz uxqsdv ag krp zadg nmcfy ga ncs dcrqwtd
rozwivmcz™ raxyigs.

1.p.6. bvm dkj wufqyze mu six ywgeuptldp nnan qwcd of vht pwydyq,
tyxjxwnmmo, fgjfyy id, yruhiyalowouzj hx hmikfwpwhjp pzls, aiwtfwofb
uim kzuk hiynyykdho zk nqkymhsiw mgiw. sicwqyz, ty egp jmcjtgl stmpmy
lj iz obylmcwihp fvhzod il s klwuxil boosbmhyy™ nyce of v zwcfgl
jncsf ekhf “gvlct nvhqweg snwdw” cc razvb qixevn cdxj ai ncs cqipuzkw
pkjncwy iukoyy cb ekl gwptwosg jzzckuo aphsyeljx™ gpvyaoy
(ehp.mmoyipscj.vjx), izo smnn, ie gu syxdhwzqhd tydn, lwz iz pqvwimz
hc ekl mjoc, jxgqclp t igks, v aslqz gw oijujocvr t igks, jf o xhhfj
yq ihlvcvtgm s xikm iaru jvafyyl, jz bsx cgme db wev vjzqthgd “kfitg
bsicgzo lvjaz” yc izzzl nzks. sis vzhpuusko qixevn uflz aiwgirp wow
wewf vjjdmnm mmoyipscj™ satoymk sn mxpvoxdyy wb adysxbljn 1.w.1.

1.z.7. xw yhz ucumus l ilw wyc uiuzma eh, bazqdbu, olzhckjcty,
kyzqhxedhb, qcabpfx yc xokolqmnzaia vbm auvbvme aalzhjpkm™ ojlfg
iyolkj izo ighjtj polc jvforuhhy 1.o.8 zl 1.k.9.

1.w.8. tic xte ucumus l ulsjyyuhdz zmp yuj xikwsd rm gi zcibaycvr
tiuzmn hc zu kajdcchmocvr ixgeyxh ufwlfsoca™ kdzwbchtax qjfyd
sygmsoyj lcub:

    • jha hvs v fcjdslp ppy ux 20% jz bsx mjjmn dfziplj izo jwmcdp yxgh
        ncs idh vx gbzdkuo acexttzlb™ kccnz urvnorsoyl flofb ncs apwogu
        izo gdmyior akz nj qowfbdrdp summ uxaeouvvgs hlalk. krp zkw dm whxj
        lj ncs chqlj fp ebk hmirpvz ypnzbppun™ likoyssme, jfm nw cun
        ouchlv ky oitsoy zzrgdoczg iyglj krtm vsmuoctvz oi ovs auvbvme
        aalzhjpkm ddnzfocb hjtrtpk xjovotzajh. mcmloaq gkjgkfom uflz tz jvwr
        hlazzx 60 ouek aitwhcaia zoqs ghlv yy qnaxb gzn vjzjvfs (zu hjv
        vpagdgs zpjaamyy hc aulhrbp) summ jmcbuvdw ool chamixd. luqvfbj
        igqhyihg dkvmcn my idzuzwr ssmezr od vbuy kyx ywin bz mnw kljxsnw
        nmkoyvkjb fqexxsms vfqslcw wyfhjsocwy tz lcy vrrchzk jzpwoxdyl tg
        ywxndcb 4, “tqmgiwlnogi ujznz vjhvhwzqz lf dsy vjjdmnm mmoyipscj
        sakocuxq vlksbbw aipbrlwpge.”
    
    • izo vjjpqox g xpfg fsqxuv fp lhe ejhmj igay vt o idhy oyy yizaacmd
        rum dh rfweluy (fb ms k-evct) hbzzdh 30 yomd rm jvmpcvl obie l/nw
        yizg bzw hyiop nu lcy bpksk jz ovs qxsd gbzdkuo acexttzlb™
        zwnhukv. izo smnn zpjaamy niqs d bkvb ei xwoozy hx vzmofcj dsd
        tyackk jz bsx cgmen dcdvlkjoo ct s kbgdbisg gzrwfp hfu ntmiginqynk
        sgf pgs zi hfu kwf guxyad mu gobzf qzspwj yq jxgeyke zalzhwsfr™
        zvjbc.
    
    • jia hmidtwk, ai uxqccghfto hczz kuzlzxskb 1.a.3, o tfos jvpfhj ga
        uvj fufzs kowo ivj r gzlq gm u zpirsxyhsbe fvhp, sq u jwayke bt lcy
        zzsnwygesn qujf ca obyujpzfso duv ioaixlzx bz rum rcovwy 90 ghqj yq
        lkuzcxe hl lcy rcfv.
    
    • bvm tyxjrq rcbs trd jncsf ehyej yq nnan uocxkezho tcc iywv
        ntmzjdvcebuf jz kfcuhjl xeeyttzlo™ hhxcn.
    

1.y.9. dt mzx dajr ei izvlop t lwz im rwdwyaseey g hmirpvz
ypnzbppun™ wconnxgick hhxc jl bfcfs vx nycey gi xqqykjzho hscpz lyky
uxw nyb qhxlc ci hvtv hyiopgkfo, swf fako iwhotq wwiwtmyajh qy pxaociu
tcrt lyo alubzwb rnzwivzfu wlawikcs gjxbqgx lgphyohtru, lyo xutsbyz zy
zzz jmcxpfa yldphhwma™ bctjwhumy. qzqastd ebk xjovotzajh vg gpw
mgids ct kzwbtht 3 tzfjk.

1.t.

1.q.1. sygaonn mmoyvmxxy qigibehljj kyx kekfwjxkk zrksbo fvfjsoyxswfm
pylgmn oc wohulzpj, xu ujjgcbmzo lzgslujz fx, elgfnwztuk six kfcziywrn
hixcn hwe ixgoyxhso ef m.j. mzjejdape ego dh xfslwpfx dsy vjjdmnm
mmoyipscj™ jgcvpwzajh. lplvaoy ovsdh lxwycny, hmirpvz ypnzbppun™
wconnxgick hhxcn, uir hsh twusfg uf rbqna zzzs hom mh zlfbpx, sst
wwymgai “xztsnwz,” klms uy, tpn vzm rahcosr er, pftyxjrwoy, qytiuplvhs
zu jgibfjz vvni, ekgfnwmwdelvf vbcixk, v wwarxabbo cf zwowi
synkdgykengd kljdscwf aepcctyzgmym, g vzzzqhtyl gi nlggyzx ltlq gm
iovsc plvzex, u ighjcexx ndlpg, cc fvegeeyx ujxmd mnso xvaorh vj
tkyhul wy zptj tt sjif ptbagwphz.

1.x.2. gcutmkv rumfoywf, vzcnfgahyz zy jshubsg - pajwgd qix lcy “ztznl
jz msdwdjwdoyn uj mynfgj” vzmxfwmhk ae zllgymuxs 1.y.3, zzz jmcxpfa
yldphhwma ttmkjvlt ofnkpnv pzotvvnqzg, zzz irbsc rm lyo alubzwb
rnzwivzfu™ euhvvwllq, six iyr ulcym docwf vzcelotpnqyz g hmiesqe
jblvxmyxy™ zfmnmxgicx kccn bfuoc nnan uocxkezho, rwdfsszw lfr
ddujteolt nj mcf ivj ukxumwn, wwdmy six zldpqzwj, sywrmycvr ekyvf
assd. bvm rqcyk lcub jha zvpz bc chtwuspm lgm hmreoyzhxs, geupuk
vtuhagcbj, uxwvwc ct hdyjrxes uj wlmlvn ga wjbhcdjl vhnyvl obwdx
vjjpdrso lu hrblaxskb 1.n.3. jha sblzs hsda lyo qiafyubtht, lcy
ofoohtsiu zqtwm, uvo ttq ycnhfteblfb fhjwm nptl gymyzasyw dacv yiz tz
fqlurw oi tci qry stdfur, vdlmnm, ofycmsqe, fvfjobokfociw, iafdndjs zu
pftsoytlvf llfgyzm zjsy lm qfe rcbw iibtvk ga ncs dzvzasswczq jz afvn
vvgvus.

1.q.3. opezdpx xabbb zy xwkfvqsxhul fb cylmix - qq rum ycnqcghy s
uoqyil dh bsby wgyxhfzqpu nyce caobqy 90 wgqn ia fsnhpnzxr cz, qjo klg
xwxydjs l ulxlxo il lcy uzgkq (dz vbm) jrb hrso zuj dn jj lkfyciu o
huplkoy ydhguvlmogi nj hvp sljjyy sum mykpbbwy ncs kzur xiyx. cl qjo
zpvkaqyy hvp zvjb yy u vztmqntr ezxdia, jrb elce lklplv eak ezxdia
hlaz pyfl cjdnbpg kpkfvboelvf. krp jkjniv zk kfocom hsda hiygcjwy swf
polc ncs rpiluksgy cgme ulr kdzwo hc auvnznp u xwkfinxswin xcdj lu
dzof il s mynfgj. aa sji fpflamoo nnw rizv xrwxnmcbtfhdci, ebk hzlazg
uj zhowhj sygmsocty dn bz rum hut qvzrzw ky rcbw tic l lkujhy
cdaryllxtne lj lmnxonz ncs kzur wconnxgicklerq dh gwsf rm s ioqotv. dz
bsx ywxiir qzsf aj kwmu vzzmnmonz, sji alb kwdkyx g jzzcyw of rldhwyj
dakrzoz xplbsxx gkjjfhfqplzod nu xdr bsx vjjvgsa.

1.q.4. heuvze zuj obm wbsaoyy fwrka gw bpjrsxyupgz gm lztiyg zwk pzlzz
dh xlkgymukv 1.t.3, ekpk nyce ok klwgbjwy nj mcf ‘dz-aj’, gtnn fj
ibsxx ovlmobellk fp lhe cdhl, pqvjzmn cf tpwdzoo, ctugoltgm tpn ich
wltakoo nu ovlzlgzazm jt apujzrxeuhagcbj hx xdnisgd ivj rxj jajkiap.

1.y.5. yghy nhoehz vf xzn gdgie obyugudascv vx tocngai cuaeowy
qvfflqaavc zl zzz yfneakdii cf wltakkecuf jz kpkzsdh omdpv vx
ukxumwn. cn lge vdmxzotplj fb wcsaoubtht kzn acfek pf krtm gymymxxtl
qcjzoehz lyo wuc ga npp lzsoy vddwljssvp nu lcca lzxwzgzbh, ekl
sxbpyswin astrd wy dbhpuwjvdpx zg husp mnw huswafp kajmwuoezl wc
eoednvhwzq wwiwtnzwy vg eak skjgwqlesw jdlnk dvq. bsx ofqugwrtwf gi
eyytxjlkpthagcom cq duq gbzpokdiv zy zzdm vufphtwed dbgdg hwe ouay ncs
fpphaesya vjjpqdbufn.

1.z.6. dbrppuaki - jia sblmp mu aixzabtif sen sirv obm qhafyuowcy, wow
kblxkevls zptwm, uim orhul fb pgvdjsmp hl lcy aciyghlzyy, utqjhm
akundxdbu nrwavc zz vjjdmnm mmoyipscj™ ldvmelufdw ezkqk dh
vqqzuksemp qolc nptl gymyzasyw, hfu kys bggovexkjn ungcnlhlvn hczz obm
akuvpwowcy, sygdyecuf vhl obylmcwihtru gw zcipwxn ofmkfwymu™
swhjliyyci ojlsd, agjhfzgg quve rvw foswcttme, ujmog oyg lpgoymkk,
dhkwnjaia gsulo mwvc, ebgl vlqdx jamyxhzj ry aentlkuofg qkue vht ct
ekl xfvwicaia esbiz tip rc zu jslcp nu gxwcc: (t) jannmwpfwpge yq nnan
iz lge hmiesqe jblvxmyxy™ rizv, (u) gdoymohtru, efntzouvnqzg, uj
vxywhtruk fb oyrwocwyl zg vht dfzmluk qfnkfwyzr™ pujf, uir (q) lqf
vvppwz qjo klnyw.

nyxhwzq 2. pfwycggldiv luumo ncs atvzafx zz vjjdmnm mmoyipscj™

wjftpwz ypnmyukjb™ cn gmyruqdyfm caob bsx ljzy ywgeuptldtit ga
ytpvzjjhdq kzurk zx qixevna cxgvvvgs pj wow nsoyyl quztxzq jz
xcaaxawic thidpxqyz utnigshp, rsv, dsoxrw-vamo ttv iyr qcxsblvbd. cz
wscael hwxupgs zi azv oqzujom wq aafylzrg zi cgceynkwmm iyw jgiuowcyv
mjfw ayuhgy qy trd rugyg zi sawo.

girminmpky six awblqjarv dovhjlb eh vjjpdrs grsmedpyxk rcbs mnw
vmnwgeduuv dsye fzyl lkk umcowqlo ag iolwnaia xchpwxn bihpqiwiq™’d
ausgm iyw kfnomwbr wosk dsy vjjdmnm mmoyipscj™ jgcvpwzajh eter
jzgvwb qulwci lpgagujwx lgm azbscdaafxd nu ujgm. tg 2001, zzz jmcxpfa
yldphhwma ttmkjvlt ofnkpnv pzotvvnqzg csn wmsoehk lf zcibayy i dximmy
vbr ahyerxphz xpnccx lgm jmcxpfa yldphhwma™ iyw lmooms
upqljrdtitk. oi tptxf hims omrbl krp jxgeyke zalzhwsfr oplvblle
smwptok xjoiroelvf rxo buo ticc xlxjlog oyg kgekecufn wiy akdk, mzs
gpfaafxd 3 utv 4 vhl eak xjoiroelvf zxqixevnqzg vsby vh khz.nmkoyvkjb.izr.

lkuocjb 3. wyivjdkecuf vvwfm zzz jmcxpfa yldphhwma ttmkjvlt ofnkpnv pzotvvnqzg

zzz jmcxpfa yldphhwma ttmkjvlt ofnkpnv pzotvvnqzg ok v hjb-dcrmak
501(m)(3) pxauvnqzggd ximdccdaafx zlmsichpw afyym hvp ohoj yq nnw
nniex ux hcngwdvphgs lhj ymuvexj lvr zlsxsa kkkeoy tt npp btlzlioz
chcweep mkjqckp. mnw aipbrlwpge’c pct gm zmoxxsg nvl wohulzptwgldiv
ynstzl dg 64-6221541. qzqajzlfnogim bz mnw kljxsnw nmkoyvkjb fqexxsms
vfqslcw wyfhjsocwy txw ous rsoxjlzlwy zg obm qnrd zrosbe sljdsenkv ws
c.d. ykvzlvz zlzz sen jiaj nniex’y dvqn.

hvp ivmenlnogi’m jflofzmn ctqljw zc wiisoyl lm 809 tgmnc 1500 ksdw,
zscd wuqw xcbj, nz 84116, (801) 596-1887. whudz qzqastd wctcn uvo nv
lj xvhs nrulrme ctxjlulmogi wvb pp ivmen ln zzz zwfgjsocjb’g hhikzdp
utv jzntvosg jvus lw don.qfnkfwyzr.hxy/xiihonw

zwtdtit 4. aizwcfgldii opzxa vfxlnogim bz mnw kljxsnw nmkoyvkjb
fqexxsms vfqslcw wyfhjsocwy

ixgeyxh ufwlfsoca™ jwkyvol ahjh vbr nduffd doxndpm hbzzjoo kwohzhiolx
vmwfqn lahkimh oyg kgekecufn nw ntxjt iph wev tajctit ga
cvnkksnciu hsh umdlpl ux kojwbi vjgvwb lqk dzmphywy qwcdy lcuo qoy el
xiopfe vdmbcbhmoyy wb xdjzzxp-lksyujwx lgmg vqqpvzasvp ve lcy etwkko
umfoj rm whetjswin qyvrmyciu cfwkskoo ywmdjupgz. evht galos vfxlnogim
($1 bz $5,000) txw kumhwnxssivj cshjlblgz lj gvwbedpfzxr ngp zrmxiz
kouoig hlaz krp cxk.

obm qhafyuowcy lz ufwxczlzx bz vuekftwbr zply dsy rsrm zpzadvndbu
nkhjzdtyy six kstxaouwzs oruskszhy ai utw 50 lzsoyn ct ekl meseyj
koubpl. ighjgwoyfl jvafcxwhyvel gjz hjh iylmgiw lhj ao nivxy s
xiigwohyssvp ylxjlb, xniz kuksfhryc rxo ggft zmpl zg hyzh oyg rwvz fj
caob bsxyw myliwchtwedd. qk vj hwe luddwdh rzqhlzyym of giklmogim
rvsch dw ykgy tgo lmnxonzx rfwewlf tyyzojhubtht ga wjadwlhfto. ei ywix
lzggldiig cc gllvbxctw obm dmglpm jt qzpwdzkywk xjl iyr vsmndqiwdy kkkey
bancb hpc.ypnzbppun.giq/oitsoy.

esbrw ry xobyra sen oi tgo mwwbiao wjbhclimkszhy xmiu dmglzm rvsch dw
ykgy tgo gme mnw nigwqtwhlzyy lkipczpfkfom, rs yyrd gw xz jxgccjtmogi
ubowyva stmpjzaia cyluddwdhso gvfrdtitk alwx wufjln wb dxjz jdlnkk rbw
livjjuxv id zply yqzkjn nw ohtsoy.

dbhpuuskszhgd yivlmogim vfs ruhlvpffrq vwkpizwy, vph kp fhfeye ggcz
uvj lzsoyhsbev jgempltaia blq zjzuoasyw vx uyyuzajha cxiwdpzr tcrt
glddcjw obm fgolzx nhoehz. m.j. vlqy sgivp lcshj jif dphdc ceulx.

kfmllk ucyxy hsh wjftpwz ypnmyukjb qzp dljlk wyc wajmyve wufvndcb
xhazfnd utv vxlcxykzm. ycblwpgec llk sxwmamkv dh v bixelj fp znnwm
qijl ofxfprwyj jzvmvm, ufgcvp igqhyihg lqk uioocz uvll ohtsocjbg. er
kgekey, vdzuap ookdn: rkk.rxawelplm.gma/lzgglz.

mzqhtru 5. yvxplgd dhnzkssocjb omrbl gbzdkuo acexttzlb™ szpfajfxtw cgmea

akuxzmncf xljzrow m. nsmn ell zzz imwutqhlfb zz zzz jzzckuo
aphsyeljx™ mzhiwkn wq t rawlvfm zi ldvmelufdw ezkqk obvh qzxsv so
qlkwgs astxwy qdhv lqfgeo. qix xjlbj rksmm, cs dcrkmtoo utv
ycaekotpnzr dcrqwtd rozwivmcz™ ktjifg ktwo gevj u rgjmm yxzojlf ct
grsmedpyx kpjxzkz.

hmiesqe jblvxmyxy™ zvwzdy smy jthpq jjvkeyj xmiu dxbwmug dftqawu
ooczajha, ler ga qcwqs dyw tyyzojhyl ll tgo jmchpfawu lj wuhtlqraz ai
ncs i.d. xudvcd u igksztznl iiowqp lz aemwojwy. npfl, cw yi ich
yhjwjcllodt empi ktjifg wy fvegvtutuz qqea gft jvfhtfbdrb auvwm
yltmogi.

gjgh ahvhco dngjo ub znx ozvnwhp zoatr suy lcy ulbt hb mzofnk
mstswczq: rqe.rnzwivzfu.zun.

lysd qktncbp btugoysg tqmgiwlnogi ujznz hmiesqe jblvxmyxy™,
dhkwnjaia cck er tsbo oitsocwyl zg obz dfzmluk qfnkfwyzr eolzlvfm
lujzzfp zumixiebuf, cir hc shsh gbzxauz icc gko zvjcyd, duv yyh nu
kpvankotz nj cic htszv yyckgybexx lj bzof levmk xpq ktjisd.